ரவை
ல We

LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS-2016

COMMITTEE CONSTITUTED TO PREPARE D.M.K
ELECTION MANIFESTO

1. T.R.BAALU (CO-ORDINATOR)

2. KANIMOZHI M.P

3. V.P.DURAISAMI

4. SUBBULAKSHMI JAGADEESAN

5. T.K.S.ELANGOVAN

6. PROF.A.RAMASAMY

7. R.SHANMUGASUNDARAM

8. N.R.ELANGO

9. THANGAM.THENNARASU

D.M.K. MANIFESTO - 2016
1. Preface 9
2. State Autonomy 16
3. Language Policy Tamil as an official language 17
4. Tamil as an official language in Central government offices 18
5. Tamil as court language in High Court 18
6. Classical Language 19
7. Welfare of Eelam Tamils 20
8. Prohibition 21
9. Administrative Reforms 22
10. Agriculture 24
11. Water management 35
12. Cauvery River water sharing 45
13. Sethusamudram Project 46
14. Katchatheevu 46
15. Fishermen welfare 47
16. Weavers welfare 51
17. Labour welfare 53

18. School Education 55
19. Higher Education 56
20. Employment opportunities 59
21. Industrial Development 63
22. Electricity 67
23. Public Distribution System 69
24. Tourism 70
25. Welfare of artisans 72
26. Women’s welfare 73
27. Self-Help Groups 77
28. Welfare of Backward classes and Most backward classes 77
29. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 82
30. Welfare of sanitary workers 83
31. Welfare of Minorities 84
32. Welfare of Differently-abled persons 85
33. Welfare of Traders 86
34. Government Employees and Teachers 88

35. Welfare of Pensioners 90
36. Welfare of Immigrants 91
37. Welfare of Transgenders 92
38. Welfare of Senior citizens 92
39. Welfare of children 93
40. Social welfare 94
41. Welfare of Journalists 95
42. Public Health 97
43. Environment 100
44. Sports 103
45. Legislature 104
46. Administration 104
47. Police 106
48. Urban Development 108
49. Drinking water 108
50. Housing 109
51. Milk 110

52. Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment Department 111
53. Ports 112
54. Transport 113
55. Road Transport 115
56. Railways 116
57. Metro Rail 117
58. Civil Aviation 118
59. Waterways 118
60. Art and Culture 118
61. Disaster management 119
62. Rural development 120
63. Construction industry 121
64. Judiciary 123
65. Ex-servicemen 124
66. Veterinary 124
67. General 125

ச th ப] ப்‌ பு
Tamil Nadu 15° Legislative Assembly Election
Manifesto of the DMK Party

என்‌ உயிரினும்‌ மேலான அன்பு உடன்‌ பிறப்புகளாம்‌,
தமிழ்ப்‌ பெருமக்களே !
My Beloved and esteemed Tamils, who are more precious
to me than my life!
வணக்கம்‌.
Vanakkam.

After reverentially saluting and respectfully paying homage to the
ever-inspiring leader Arignar Anna,

who had broken the leader - cadre relationship, whichis anormal
trait in political parties, and treated all cadres as brothers and sisters
thereby proclaiming that the party is one big family,

who had given us the lofty ideal of Duty, Dignity and Discipline,

who had carried on the struggle of his leader and Mentor,
Thanthai Periyar in pursuit of upholding social reforms and
rationalism, to protect the objects of Democracy,

who had founded the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam _in the year
1949, to work for the above said policies and to work for equality,

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Social Justice and egalitarianism, which are the highest humanitarian
values, for protecting the ancient and living Tamil race, language
and cultural heritage,

who had declared that that the DMK is the beacon for home, and
servant of nation,

who had built the party as a vibrant peoples movement and took
partin anumber of struggles for the right of the Tamils,

During this centenary year of the Dravidian Movement,
remembering with deep gratitude, the harbingers of the great
movement Dr.Natesanar, Sir.Pitti Thiyagarayar and Dr.T.M.Nair who
had created a special status for Tamil Nadu, the birth place of Social
Justice, and who strove hard to impart education to the Dravidian
students and create social awareness and awakening in the minds of
the Dravidians,

With deep gratitude to the unparalleled leader of the movement,
Thanthai Periyar, who had taught us self respect, rationalism, and
Dravidian pride, and woke up the Tamil Community from slumber
and made them live a life, which is subservient to none and will not
subjugate anyone,

| am happy and proud to place before the people of Tamil Nadu,
this election Manifesto of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for the
general elections to the 15" Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.

10

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

Our track-record of past achievements clearly exhibits that only
the DMK Party can redeem the derailed State and take it towards
developmental path, industrial growth, economic stability, increased
production, infrastructure development, social welfare, and
agriculture production.

This Manifesto has been prepared keeping in mind the need for
an integrated approach towards both rural and urban development,
for achieving a total growth and laying a road-map for an all-round
developmentin the state.

To ensure economic development in the rural areas, we need to
concentrate on agriculture, build rural infrastructure, and make
available basic education in rural areas. To achieve this target, a
sound marketing system should be evolved to sell all rural products
like agricultural produce, handicrafts, handloom apparels, fruits and
vegetables at a fair and reasonable price, and augmentation of water
supply for both farming and drinking by strengthening and de-silting
of water bodies, and simplified procedure for availing of loans by
farmers, are to be implemented. This Manifesto has devised
schemes for the above-mentioned programme. This Manifesto has
also listed out for the first time district-specific schemes to be
implemented and is appended herewith.

During the year 2000 A.D member countries of the United
Nations numbering 189 had formulated a scheme aimed at ensuring
welfare of the global community. The scheme had listed out Eight

11

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Goals called Millennium Development Goals . The Member Nations
had committed to help achieve the following Goals.
1. To eradicate extreme poverty and hunger.
2. Toachieve universal primary education.
3. To promote gender equality and empower women
4. Toreduce child mortality
5. Toimprove maternal health
6. To combat HIV/Aids, Malaria and other diseases
7. Toensure environmental sustainability
8. Todevelop a global partnership for development
Year 2015 was fixed as ultimatum for achieving all these 8 goals.
Since these goals could not be achieved within the year
2015, a meeting of the member countries was held in the year 2015
had reworked the programme and released a list of seventeen goals
called Sustainable Development Goals, which are to be attained by
the year 2030.
These goals are as follows:
1. NoPoverty
2. ZeroHunger
3. Good Health and Well Being
12

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
4. Quality Education
5. Gender Equality
6. Clean Water and Sanitation
7. Affordable and Clean Energy
8. Decent Work and Economic Growth
9. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
10. Reduced Inequalities
11. Sustainable Cities and Communities
12. Responsible Consumption and Production
13. Climate Action
14. Life Below Water
15. Life onLand
16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
17. Partnerships for the Goals
Since 1967, the DMK Government, whenever in office, had prepared
various projects and passed several legislations in its mission to
achieve the various UNDP targets, even before the U.N. had
formulated and announced the above-said goals.

13

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

Various welfare boards for the development of not only
unorganized labourers but also the most ignored communities like
differently abled persons, Narikkuravars and transgenders, provision
of nutrient rich food like egg for children under the nutritious noon
meal scheme, right to equal share in the ancestral property for
women offsprings, formation of women self-help groups, monthly
pension for old age people, women who were deserted by their
husbands, and widows, reservation in employment and education for
religious minorities, abolition of manual scavenging, a law permitting
qualified men of all castes to perform puja in temples, Equitable
Education Scheme (samacheerkalvi), sustained industrial
development, steady growth in infrastructure, maintenance of law
and order, reservation in education and employment to ensure social
equality, and creation of casteless model villages called ‘Periyar
Memorial Samathuvapuram' are a few of the schemes introduced
during the DMK rule in the state.

Party treasurer Thalapathy M.K.Stalin undertook an extensive
tour throughout the state in the name of 'We for Ourselves’ (Namakku
Naame). During this tour, he had met thousands and thousands of
people from various walks of life and representatives of various
organizations, trade unions, weavers, farmers, fishermen and
labourers and discussed with them about their plight, needs and
demands and had assured them that steps will be taken to fulfill their

14

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 agile: MANIFESTO
demands. During his tour, he had received about 4.5 lakhs petitions
from the public. Likewise, Members of the DMK Manifesto Committee
undertook district-wise tour throughout the State, met the
representatives of various organizations, and held consultations with
them, and received petitions from them.

All these petitions were carefully and meticulously scrutinized by
the Manifesto committee and this manifesto is prepared in
consultation with the General Secretary and Treasurer. With a will to
ensure progress of Tamil Nadu in all respects and to make the people
flourish, | once again express happiness in submitting this Manifesto
for 'Tamil Nadu State Legislative Assembly Election 2016' to the
benign voters of Tamil Nadu.

Affectionately,
Chennai - 600 018 (2). ல. அட்ட _
10.4.2016 (M. Karunanidhi)
President, D.M.K.
15

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
State Autonomy

1. To fulfill the wishes of Perarignar Anna, the DMK Government,
for the first time in the history of Independent India, had
appointed a committee headed by Justice Rajamannar with
Justice Chandra Reddy and Dr. A.Lakshmanasamy Mudaliyar
as members in the year 1969 to go into the issues of State
Autonomy and Centre - State Relations.

In the year 1983, Government of India had appointed a
committee to review the Centre - State Relations, headed by
Justice R.S.Sarkaria and later another committee headed by
Justice M.N.Venkatachalaiah, to go into the same subject, in
the year 2000.

When the first UPA government was formed in the year
2004, the DMK, a member of the alliance, had insisted on the
Government of India to review the Centre - State Relations,
and Government of India agreed to this demand and
appointed another Commission headed by Justice
M.M.Poonchi in the year 2007.

The DMK will continue to demand the Government of India
to study the recommendations of all the four committees
thoroughly and amend the constitution of India to give fuller
autonomy to the States and make India, a truly federal
democracy.

16

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Language Policy
Tamil as an official Language
2. The DMK, which has suffered countless losses in protecting
our mother tongue Tamil and opposed Hindi imposition, is
determined to continue to work in that direction.

The DMK continues to urge that the assurance of the late
lamented Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru that Hindi
would not be imposed on people speaking other languages
and English would continue as long as non-Hindi speaking
people desired. In his address to the joint session of Parliament
in 2004, President Abdul Kalam announced that study would
be undertaken for making official languages of all States as
official languages of the Centre. But the Centre has not taken
any effort to make all official languages of states as the official
languages of the Centre. The DMK will continue to urge the
Centre to bring appropriate amendment in the Official
Languages Actsoas to make official languages of all States as
the official languages of the Centre as announced by the
Presidentin his Address.

As a first step, the DMK will continue to urge the Centre to
implement the resolution adopted at the State conference of
the DMK at Tiruchi in 1996 to make Tamil, the oldest among the
Dravidian languages and rich in literary culture, as one of the
official languages of the Centre.

17

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

The DMK will also urge that the examinations and interviews
for Central government jobs and all examinations for all
departments including Union Public Service Commission, be
conducted also in the official languages of the respective
States.

Tamil as an official Language in Central government offices
3. The DMK will continue to urge that our mother tongue Classical
Tamil be declared as co-official language in Central
government offices in Tamil Nadu and that all correspondences
and transactions in Central government offices, organizations,
and nationalized banks in Tamil Nadu should be in Tamil and to
make appropriate amendment to section 343 of the
Constitution of India.
Tamil as court Language in High Court
4. The DMK will urge upon the Government of India to implement
the suggestions of legal experts for creating four Regional
Courts of Appeal which is under the consideration of the
constitutional bench of the Hon’ ble Supreme Court. DMK will
further urge to set up the court of appeal of the Southern
Region to be established in Tamil Nadu.

Section 7 of the Official Languages Act 1963 states, ‘Hindi or
official languages of the States can be used in the verdicts and
orders of the State High Courts’. The Act further states that the

18

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

President shall accept and issue orders if a resolution is
adopted in the State Legislature and forwarded to the
President with the recommendation of the Governor.

On that basis, during DMK rule, a resolution for making
Tamil as High Court language was adopted in the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly on 6.12.2006 and forwarded to the
Centre with the recommendation of the Chief Justice of the
Madras High Court and the Governor of Tamil Nadu on
11.2.2007. But the Centre has so far not taken any decision.
Hence the DMK will continue to urge the Centre to accept Tamil
as a language in High Court on the basis of the resolution
adopted in the Assembly.

Classical Language
5. Due to our relentless efforts, the UPA Government at the
Centre had declared Tamil as a Classical Language. The
century old demand of Tamil scholars was fulfilled due to our
efforts. We also took steps for conducting World Classical
Tamil Conference by inviting Tamil scholars from all over the
world, thereby adding glory to the language. The DMK will urge
the Center to declare Tirukkural as a National Book to add
further glory to classical Tamil.
6. Steps will be taken for establishing Tamil Chairs in the
Universities all over the world.
19

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

7. The project to construct a building for Classical Tamil Research
Institute for which 17 acre land was allotted during DMK rule
and keptin abeyance by the present rulers will be implemented
and a new building will be constructed.

8. As in Chennai, classical language park will be set up at
Coimbatore, where the World Classical Tamil Conference was
held.

9. As amemorial of the declaration of Tamil as classical language,
during DMK rule we established a very big park near Anna
Flyover and named it as ‘Classical Language Park’. Public
visited the park in the evenings and spent time happily. But due
to animosity the ADMK regime covered the name 'Classical
Language park' and ignored it without maintenance. The DMK
avows to refurbish and maintain the park for public use.

10. World renowned books in other languages will be translated
into Tamil. Similarly best Tamil books will be translated into
world languages for spreading the glory of Tamil and Tamils at
the global level by using print and electronic media.

Welfare of Eelam Tamils

11. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to press the world
nations for conducting an independent and credible
international probe into human rights violations, war crimes
and genocide in Sri Lanka.

20

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

12. Only diluted political power sharing has been permitted in
Northern and Eastern provinces of Sri Lanka. The DMK will
urge the Centre to demand the UN to conduct a referendum
among Tamils in Sri Lanka and displaced Tamils for a
permanent political solution and to press the Sri Lankan
government to make provisions in the proposed new
Constitution for Tamils to get equal rights.

Prohibition

13. Lawwill be enacted for enforcing prohibition in Tamil Nadu. The
Government will formulate schemes to compensate the loss
incurred by implementing prohibition.

14. Tamil Nadu Integrated Regulated Marketing Corporation will be
created and ways and means will be formulated for TASMAC
employees to serve in the new corporation without losing their
service seniority.

The government will totally get relieved from sale of liquor
and steps will be taken for establishing new extended markets
like Uzhavar Shandais for selling agro products like paddy,
plantain, ground nut, chilly, vegetables, pulse varieties and
rural products like handloom cloth and handicrafts directly to
the consumers.

15. To provide treatment for alcoholics an organization under the
departments of health and family welfare will be created

21

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
through which De-addiction centres will be started in all
districts for men with drinking habits where treatment and
psychotherapy will be provided.

Administrative Reforms

16. During the DMK rule in the year 1973 an Act called Public Men
(criminal misconduct) Act was passed for enquiring into the
charges against public servants, including the Chief Minister
and Ministers, people’s representatives and government
servants. In 1977 the ADMK government repealed it. Asimilar
Act to establish Lok Ayuktha to go into the charges against
people's representatives and government servants including
Chief Minister, and Ministers will be passed.

17. Right to Services Act will be enacted to ensure proper delivery
of government services like issuance of community
certificates, birth and death certificates, income certificates,
nativity certificates, pension benefits, public distribution
schemes and welfare schemes etc., of the government to the
public without any hassle.

18. Due to the worst financial administration of the present ADMK
regime, debt burden of Tamil Nadu government has increased
to more than Rs . 4 lakh crores. There is also loss in many ways
of the tax revenue of the government. Acommittee of economic
experts directly reporting to the Chief Minister will be formed to

22

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
suggest ways and means to stop leakage of revenue and
recommend measures to stop unnecessary expenditure and to
monitor the government projects to ensure implementation
within the prescribed time-limit.

19. An administrative reforms committee consisting of experts of
various fields will be set up for recommending transparent and
corruption-free administration based on recently-developed
management techniques and methods. The committee's
recommendations will be obtained within six months and
implemented at the earliest.

20. The Central Planning Commission is not in vogue now. Further
after the end of the 12" five year plan, the continuance of State
Planning Commission becomes a question mark. Hence, a
‘State Economic Development Board' consisting of non-
political chairman and members experienced in finance,
Labour laws, methods of taxation and industrial sector will be
constituted for conceiving plans suitable for rural and urban
economic development, monitor economic development in the
State and to function as single window for industrial
entrepreneurs and as long - standing friend of investors. The
work of this commission is to ensure uniform economic
progress all over Tamil Nadu by conceiving plans for rural
economic progress besides being envoys for foreign direct
investment. This set up will devise plans to be executed in each

23

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
department and determine economic yardsticks for those
plans and recommend to the concerned ministry.

21. Planning Body for every department will be set up and efforts
will be made for the department concerned to undertake steps
for implementing plans recommended by the State Economic
Development Board.

22. Steps will be taken to bifurcate bigger revenue districts on the
basis of population and the number of Assembly
constituencies for better Administration.

Agriculture

23. Due to the indifference of the present ADMK regime, the
Cauvery Delta farmers are resorting to only single crop
(samba) instead of usual two annual crop season (kuruvai and
samba). Further agriculturists were unable to cultivate short
term crops. Similarly, due to the failure of the ADMK regime to
properly maintain irrigation sources, farmers were driven to
committing suicide. To protect the welfare of the several lakhs
of farmers in the State and to increase Agriculture produce a
separate Budget for Agriculture will be prepared and presented
in the Legislative Assembly.

24. Anew policy will be formulated to market agriculture produce.
Under this policy action will be taken to market agricultural
produce nationally and internationally. Farmers will be able to

24

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

sell their products directly without any middle man, at market
determined prices. To facilitate marketing, a “Comprehensive
Agriculture Produce Marketing Exchange’ will be formed with
the participation of Government and producers of agricultural
goods. This mechanism will help farmers to know the market
prices for their produces.

To periodically improve and renew the policy in tune with
changing times , an ‘Agriculture Produce Marketing Regulation
Act' will be promulgated.

25. Entire crop loan availed by small and micro farmers will be
waived.

26. TheADMK government has fixed the minimum support price of
paddy as Rs.1520 per quintal. The DMK government will fix
the MSP for paddy at Rs.2000 per quintal initially and step by
step increase upto Rs.2500.

27. The Government of India had fixed Rs.2300 as MSP per tonne
of Sugarcane for the sugar year 2015-2016. The ADMK
government had announced a mere Rs.550 inclusive of
cartage totaling Rs.2850. The Sugarcane farmers are letdown
by this announcement. To alleviate the sufferings of the
farmers, the DMK government will increase the amount by
Rs.1200 including cartage over and above the amount of
Rs.2300 fixed by the Government of India, totaling Rs.3500.

25

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

Action will be taken for payment of full amount for
sugarcane supplied by sugarcane growers to sugar mills within
three months from the date of delivery. In the last five years the
ruling ADMK regime has not conducted any tripartite talks
between sugar mill managements, sugarcane growers and
government representatives. Hence, sugarcane growers could
not get their arrears from sugar mills. As was done during the
previous DMK rule, steps will be taken for conducting tripartite
talks, periodically, to make necessary arrangements for
payment of arrears and to fix fair and remunerative price every
year.

28. A-separate division for organic farming will be created in the
Agricultural Department.

29. An organic farming research centre will be established. And it
will be named after Thiru Ko.Nammalvar a pioneer, in organic
farming.

30. Agricultural Development Councils at the State and district
levels consisting of representatives of farmers will be
constituted for reviewing various problems faced by the
agricultural sector; for conceiving farmers welfare schemes; for
fixing Minimum Support Price for agricultural products like
plantain, turmeric, tapioca, pulse varieties, chilly, grains, tea
and oil seeds. Necessary steps will be taken to procure pulses
by the government and sell through PDS outlets.

26

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

31. A ‘Horticulture Research Centre’ will be established in
Mannavanur, Kodaikanal where 390 Acres of Land is available
with the government for the development and identification of
new varieties of vegetables and fruits, flowers and medicinal
plants and herbs.

32. Besides continuing to supply free power for farmers, power
connection will be given within a time frame to all the farmers
who have applied for power connection. Moreover, three phase
power will be supplied to all agricultural pumpsets now in
operation.

33. Free dhoti and saree and Pongal cash prize of Rs.500 will be
given to small and micro farmers and agricultural labourers
every year.

34. All over Tamil Nadu, Prosopis Juliflora and Water hysin have
extensively grown affecting storage capacity, ground water
level and flow of water. They will be totally eradicated and water
bodies will be preserved.

35. 25 percent of the cost and rent for inputs including fertilizer and
machines used for cultivation under co-operative farming
through societies started by not less than 50 farmers holding
less than three acres each would be borne by the government.

36. Anew legislation will be passed to give additional 50 days'
work along with 100 days provided under Mahatma Gandhi

27

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

Rural Employment Guarantee Act totaling to 150 days in a
year. Under the new State law, workers will be used only for
agricultural operation during crop seasons.

37. Presently, the number of agricultural workers is dwindling and
the need for agricultural machines is increasing. Many youth
interested in agriculture are moving to other occupations. In
order to attract them towards agriculture and to develop
agriculture by introducing modern technologies, a certain
number of cooperative bodies consisting of minimum 40 men
and women, who have completed school education, would be
formed in every district in the State. These bodies can
purchase 5 tractor with tillers, 5 planting machines, 5
harvesting machines at an approximate value of Rs 2.50
crore for which government will provide government
guarantee. Each member will contribute Rs.50,000 as their
share in the Co-operative. Margin money for the said loan will
be paid from out of the members share. These co-operative
units will undertake works like ploughing, transplanting and
harvesting in their areas at a fee. By this scheme minimum
25,000 youths will get employment opportunities. Not less than
500 agro tech co-operative units will be established throughout
the State

38. Uzhavar Sandhai (farmers' market) scheme will be revived and
extended to more towns. Permission will be granted for mobile

28

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
markets for selling agricultural products to facilitate farmers to
earn good profit and urban consumers to get products in fair
price.

39. In every panchayat union grain storage godowns will be
established.

40. Due to shortage of men and space in paddy procurement
Centres, farmers have to wait for long and in some places for
days to deliver the produce. This causes inconvenience to
farmers. To get rid of this, steps will be taken for setting up
paddy procurement centres with drying areas and godowns in
1000 more places and appoint requisite man-power.

41. Loss of human life due to forest animals is increasing year by
year. In view of the increase in number of victims attacked by
elephants, 7 inthe year 2013, 12 in 2014, and 18 in 2015, it
becomes the duty of the government to avert man-animal
conflict. Corridors for elephants and other forest animals will be
identified and the government will provide necessary safety
arrangements for people living in those areas. The
compensation of Rs. 3 lakhs now provided for loss of life due to
forest animals will be increased to Rs. 6 lakhs.

42. Tamil Nadu requires 1,05,000 tonne paddy seed per year.
Particularly, ADT 43, ADT 36, ASD 16, CO (R_) 50 and CO (51)
for kuruvai cultivation, CR 1009 (Savithiri), BPT 5204, (Andhra

29

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Ponni) for samba cultivation and ADT 38, ADT 39, ADT 46, CO
43, ADT 49, ADT 50 for thaladi cultivation are being used. Of
these subsidy is not provided for paddy seed varieties
introduced ten years ago. Subsidy of Rs .10 is paid only for
newly introduced varieties of CO (R) 50, CO (51), ADT 49 and
ADT 50. Of the total requirement of paddy seeds for
agriculture, the government is providing only 17 percent. All
varieties of paddy seeds irrespective of their period of
introduction will be supplied to farmers with full subsidy.

43. Steps will be taken for providing 25 percent grant to those co-
operative units formed by rural agricultural women who have
completed 12" standard and are engaged in flower cultivation ,
fishery, braiding mats and vases, pottery and poultry farming.

44. Subsidy up to Rs.10,000 will be provided for small and micro
farmers for buying new electric motors.

45. 75 percent subsidy will be given to farmers for setting up drip
irrigation system to a maximum of 5 acres for encouraging drip
irrigation system.

46. At present power connection is given only for the bore wells
sunk beyond 200 metres from the river banks. This distance
will be reduced to 100 metres.

47. Efforts will be made for establishing a National Institute of Bio-
Technology in Tamil Nadu to promote agriculture.

30

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

48. Aco-ordination committee consisting of representatives from
the departments of Agriculture, PWD, Forest and Co-operation
will be formed to find solutions to the various issues relating to
farmers.

49. Necessary action will be taken to purchase milk, fruits,
vegetables, pulses and grain varieties from cooperative
societies for the consumption by nutritious noon meal centres,
government students hostels and canteens of government
departments.

50. Action will be taken to pay due compensation for the piece of
land in farm lands which are used _ for erecting electricity
towers.

51. Agricultural lands will be protected by taking suitable action to
prevent conversion of farm lands to other purposes without the
consent of farmers, affecting agricultural production. The DMK
will continue to oppose the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Bill
introduced by the ruling BJP regime at the Centre for acquiring
lands without the consent of farmers and without seeking the
opinion of people living in those areas.

52. Special loan facility and modern technical facilities required will
be made available for those engaged in producing palm
products. Moreover palm jaggery will be procured through
district agricultural cooperative societies. Modern Schemes for

31

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
processing and marketing of palm products will be devised and
implemented.

53. Atpresent crop insurance amount is paid to farmers only when
natural calamity or destruction affects the whole area. When
the land of an individual farmer is affected, insurance amount is
not paid. Hence suitable action will be taken for payment of
compensation even if the land of an individual farmer is
affected. Crop insurance scheme will be brought so as to
provide compensation for destruction of crops due to forest
animals besides natural calamity.

54. Action will be taken for developing infrastructure and marketing
to encourage the export of cashew and special variety of fruits.

55. Permission will be granted to farmers to take alluvial soil in
dams and water bodies and wells to their agricultural lands ata
concessional rates

56. Steps will be taken for setting up herbal gardens throughout
Tamil Nadu, to grow medicinal plants and to get appropriate
price for them.

57. The Medicinal Herbs Farm started in Kavalur, Vellore district
during the previous DMK rule, which is presently defunct, will
be reopened and made functional.

32

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

58. In order to encourage sericulture, arrangements will be made
for setting up silk cocoons sale centres in needy districts and to
get appropriate price for silk worm nest produced.

59. Permission will be granted for extracting 'Neera' like sweet
toddy from coconut trees and selling through coconut farmers
cooperative societies.

60. Inthe interest of coconut farmers, schemes will be formulated
for multiplication of the usage of tender coconut and coconut
and by cultivating various crops through chain farming method
and to earn continuous income all through the year.

61. The DMK will continue to urge the Government of India for
representation for Tamil Nadu in the Central Coconut
Development Board.

62. Efforts will be made for paying appropriate compensation for
coconut trees affected by pest and drought and those affected
by diseases periodically.

63. Asub regional centre of Coconut development Board and an
integrated coconut product complex will be established in
Pollachi.

64. Besides the government procuring copra through Tamil Nadu
Coconut Welfare Board, steps will be taken for fixing
procurement price for purchase by private agencies. Moreover

33

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
the government will procure coconut oil and sell it through fair
price shops.

65. The DMK government will stop extraction of methane gas and
shale gas, in and around agricultural lands.

66. Soil testing labs will be set up in all regional agricultural offices
in panchayat unions in Tamil Nadu.

67. In order to encourage farmers producing Jaggery (Nattu
Sakkarai) steps will be taken for distributing the same through
fair price shops.

68. Special industrial estate will be established for producing
agricultural equipments.

69. Besides totally opposing the move of the Centre to introduce
genetically modified technology in India, permission will not be
given for experimental attempts in Tamil Nadu.

70. Ascheme for carrying inputs required for crops cultivation by
farmers in Tamil Nadu in 'Friend of Farmer Vehicles’ and
distribution under subsidized price will be introduced.

71. By suitably using the principal technologies of this century like
information technology and bio technology steps will be taken
for converting agriculture into high tech agricultural industry.

72. New technologies like micro watershed management will be
introduced for dry land farming and waste land development.

34

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Steps will be taken for assisting farmers involved in cultivation
of millets and pulses in these lands.

73. The hardships caused to farmers due to uncontrolled setting up
of prawn farms in coastal areas will be removed and the prawn
farm sector will be regularized.

74. The agricultural research centre in Anna Farm established in
an area of 1000 acres in Kudumianmalai during the previous
DMK government is left defunct by the ADMK regime. Steps
will be taken to improve the standard of this centre and make it
functional.

75. Farmers engaged in organic farming will be paid input subsidy.

76. Steps will be taken for starting Horticultural University in Jeenur
in Krishnagiri district which was announced during the previous
DMK government.

Water management

77. Aseparate Ministry for Irrigation, which is now functioning as a
part of the Public Works Department, will be created so as
regulate, save and distribute water available during monsoon
and water from the neighbouring states. Considering the floods
and drought situation which the State had faced so far this
Ministry will take steps to save water and ensure proper
distribution during crop season.

35

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

78. Legislation will be introduced for establishing Water
Management Authority for repairing all water ways, tanks and
reservoirs in Tamil Nadu, to prevent and remove
encroachments and to ensure adequate quantum of water
available for Tamil Nadu from other States.

79. TheDMK governmentin the year 2008 laid foundation stone for
Cauvery — Agniyaru — Koaraiyaru — Pambaru — Vaigai -
Kundaru Linking Project. In the year 2009 work was started
linking Tamiraparani — Karumeniyaru - Nambiyaru. The ADMK
government did not proceed with the implementation of these
important projects. The DMK will ensure completion of both
these projects on a war-footing. Further Palar — Thenpennai -
Cauvery linking project will also be taken up for
implementation. On completion of these three projects all the
rivers in the State will be linked. When the anticipated Ganga -
Mahanadhi — Godhavari— Krishna - Cauvery linking scheme is
completed Tamil Nadu will be able to reap the benefits
immediately.

80. On assumption of office the DMK government will allocate
Rs.10,000 crores in the first phase for implementing Statewide
water management projects like de-silting traditional water
bodies in Tamil Nadu, such as Madurantakam lake
(Kancheepuram), Thamal lake (Kancheepuram), Singanallur
lake (Coimbatore), UkkadamPeriyaEri (Coimbatore),

36

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Veeranam lake (Cuddalore), Kaveripakkam (Vellore),
Kallaperambur lake (Thanjavur), Vaduvur lake (Tiruvarur),
Kalumangalam lake (Edakilaiyur), Sellikurichi lake
(Pattukottai), MariammanKoil lake (Thanjavur),
Pazhanganatham lake, Kandiratheertham lake, Sukiran lake,
P.Adanur big lake, Pullampadi canal, Sitheri,.
Ponnatruthalaipu, Vadapuramchetti lake in Ariyalur district,
R.S.Mangalamkanmai (Ramanathapuram),
Ramanathapuram periyakanmai and Perurperiyakulam
(Kanayakumari), Suseendram lake (Kanyakumari),
Putheriperiakulam (Kanyakumari), Periyakulam_ in
Vijayanarayaam and Manurperiyakulam (Tirunelveli),
KalariPeriyakanmai (Ramanathapuram), Vadakal, Thenkal,
MaruthuMelakkal, 53 tanks in Killakkal canal, Salaigiraman
(Sivagangai), TirupathurPeriyaKanmai (Sivakangai),
Kavinadukanmai (Pudukottai), Marappur Periya Kanmai
(Pudukottai), Vagavasal Periya Kanmai (Pudukottai), Nilayur —
KuthiyarKuntu (Tirupparangundram), Srivilliputhur
PeriyaKanmai (Viruthunagar), Madurai KunnathurKanmai,
MadakulamKanmai, Sellurkanmai, Poonthurai Lake (Erode),
and to store surplus water wastefully draining into sea and
construct new canals to take water to dry areas and to improve
irrigation facilities and drinking water facility in all districts in
Tamil Nadu. The above works will be undertaken under Chief
Minister's monitorable target.
37

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

81. Check dams will be constructed for the benefit of farmers at
needy places along rivers Pamini, Koraiyaru, Vennaru,
Cauvery, Kollidam and Kudamurutti flowing in Tiruvarur and
Nagapattinam districts, in places of Pachur, Poyyundarkotttai,
Vettikadu, Sillathur, Vadakkikottai in Maharajapuram_ wild
stream in Thanjavur district, at Tirumanur, T Palur, Kollidam
Kuruvadi in Marudaiyaru in Perambalur district, Kattaru near
Puliyamkombai, Kunderi, PunjaipugalurNanniyur and
Kulittalai, Nerur in Cauvery Karur district, Kadambarkoil
Uthiramerurtaluk, in Palar at Palur, Pudur Madurantakan taluk,
Avalur Walajaah taluk, Palayaseevaram Cheyyar,
Tirumukkudal Uthiramerur taluk, and Vayalur
Tirukkalukundram aluk, Vaniottu near Ennekol in
Thenpennaiyaru in Krishnagiri district, 80௦55 Palar in
between kavanur Kandaneri, Panneeerkottai east of
Chenrayan hills, Kattuputtur in Cauvery in Thottiyam union,
across Thenpennaiyar at Orathur, in Kusastalai river near
P.E.V.Palayam, in Villunni river at Mokkulam near Vadaaukki in
Arantangitaluk, at Sholavandam area across Vaigai river,
Asuma river Usilampatti area Madurai district, in
Sankaraparani river Villupuram district (across Reddikuppam
Perambur limit), Kollidam Cuddalore district Knansahib canal
junction, at Karur across Cauvery, and across Gingee
Sankaraparani river, Kuzhithurai, Valliyar and Pazhaiyaru . In

38

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
the first phase proper estimate will be prepared for constructing
not less than 200 check dams and Rs.2000 crores will be
allocated.

82. The governmentwill make all efforts for management of ground
level and upper level of water flowing in water bodies by
properly calculating downstreams on the basis of measuring
the present contour levels of the State, for proper water
management.

83. An advisory body called Chennai Metro Flood Management
Committee consisting of urban planning experts, environment
scholars, hydro engineers and experts in water management
sector will be constituted to suggest ways and means for
creation of storm water drains and to control water during
floods so that immediate measures are taken to protect the
people of Chennai, during flooding.

84. Two rivers Cooum and Adayar are flowing in the heart of
Chennai and Kotralairiver is flowing in Tiruvallur district. River
Adayar is performing the work of carrying to the sea most of the
water in seven water zones of Chennai Corporation. Flood
occurs due to discharge of surplus water from
Chembarambakkam lake. But the surplus water from over
50 lakes in Kundrathur and Sriperumpudur taluk, which help
filling of Chembarampakkam lake, joins in Adayar river through

39

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
various branch canals. In this way surplus water of 50 out of 96
lakes in Sriperumpudur taluk flows to sea through Adayar river.
Flood damage caused by surplus water flowing to sea through
Adyar river badly affects central and southern regions of
Chennai.

Similarly Kotralairiver springing in Chittoor district in Andhra
Pradesh flows for 120 kms through Tiruvallur district and joins
Bay of Bengal near Nappalayam next to Minjur. Hence, in order
to save Chennai city from the deluge due to rain water and
surplus water flood, for de-silting Cehmbarambakkam, Porur,
Tiruneermalai, Erumaiyur, Somangalam, Nandambakkam,
Naduveerapattu, Nallur, Manmangalam, Pillaipakkam,
Sriperumpudur, Malaipattu, Mannivakkam, Vandalur,
Mudichur, Perunkalathur, Irumpuliyur, Urappakkam, Adhanur,
Guduvancheri, Nandivaram, Padappai, Nattarasanpattu,
Kattankolathur, Athanancheri, Orathur, Salamangalam,
Vanchuvancheri, Vallam, Maganyam, Alakur, Vaipur,
Sarapanacheri, Vadakkupattu, Chennankuppam, Pondhur,
Kannanthangal, Palnellur, Mambakkam, Vengadu Kolathur,
Poonthandalam, Palanthandalam, Pazhaverkadu, Retteri,
Velacheri, Sholavaram lakes, Pappan canal, Mannivakkam
canal, Manapakkam canal, Ramapuram canal,
Tirumudivakkam link canal, Urappakkam link canal, Veerangal
canal, Okkiam drainage, Orathurodai canals and Poondi and

40

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

Puzhal huge reservoirs around Chennai, for deepening and
cleaning rivers like Buckingham canal, Mambalam canal
,OtteriNulla, Captain Cotton canal for linking Kottralai, Cooum
and Adyar rivers Buckingham canal running north south will be
renovated so as to carry additional water without hindrance.
Ways and means would be found for implementing a special
project by allocating Rs.5000 Crores in the first phase for taking
action for preventing damage due to floods.

85. Due to frequent changes in the sea tides, sand dunes are
formed and the river mouth is blocked and hence, discharge of
excess water flowing into the sea becomes difficult and thereby
excess water spreads to the land area causing damages to
houses and properties. Hence, Monsoon Special Control
Centres will be formed to work round the clock to prevent
blockade in the river mouths and control the quantity of water
discharged from the rivers during monsoon.

86. The presentADMK government in Tamil Nadu has repealed the
Tamil Nadu Ground Water Protection Actin 2013 to help foreign
soft drink firms and for the government to sell drinking water on
commercial price. Due to this ground water could not be
properly administered. Hence, suitable steps would be taken
for reenacting Tamil Nadu Ground Water Protection Act.

87. Water channels will be desilted for water properly reaching
Grand Anaicut canal irrigation areas of Thanjavur, Orathanad,

41

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Pattukottai, Peravurani, Sethubavasamudram and tail end
areas. Similarly water channels will be formed to ensure water
flow for all areas of Kattalai canal and Uyyakondan canal
including Chengipatti, Budalur and Vallam.

88. Following Palar-Tamiraparani river basin renovation scheme
under integrated development project executed during DMK
rule, efforts will be made for extending it to other river basins.

89. Besides urging the Centre to implement Indian rivers linking
project, efforts will be made for formulating and executing
south Indian rivers linking project.

90. With the Kerala Government completing construction of
Idaimalaiaru dam under Parambikulam-Aliyar project on the
basis of the 1969 agreement between Tamil Nadu and Kerala
government, steps will be taken to construct dam at
Anaimalaiar through talks.

91. A fifteen km tunnel will be constructed to carry water from
Melneeraru to Nallaru—Thirumurthy dam.

92. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to ensure effective
implementation of the order of the Supreme Court to raise
water level of Mullaiperiyar dam to 142 feet.

93. By constructing new canal from the Periyar-Vaigai main
irrigation canal, supply of sufficient water for agriculture will be
ensured. and ayakat area around Sathaiyar dam will be
increased

42

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

94. Rainwater harvest scheme for increasing water sources will be
extended to all towns/cities.

95. Pechiparaidam will be de-silted and renovated.

96. Noyyal river will be desilted and cleaned. Bhavani - Noyyalar -
Amaravathi river linking project will be implemented.

97. Kanya Madhagu check dam in Viruthunagar District Vadipaitti-
Serapparai dam will be renovated.

98. Canals will be constructed from Varadamanadhi, Shanmuga
river and Amaravati to utilize the surplus water draining into
sea for the purpose of irrigation for the Ottanchthiram
Thoppampatti areas.

99. Therkaru-Gundanar linking project will be implemented for
irrigating the water starving eastern area of Virudhunagar
district.

100. Salem Mecheri Water pumping project will be implemented.

101. Steps will be taken for storing water flowing from four hills by
constructing check dams for irrigation by implementing
Kolathur Thonimaduvu project.

102. Salem Sanarpatti-Moolakadu Sambal water pumping project
will be implemented.

103. Athikadavu-Avinashi project, designed for drinking water and
irrigation needs of Coimbatore, Erode and Tirupur districts by

43

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
filling tanks in those districts with the surplus water available
during floods in Bhavani river, has been pending for along time.
Steps will be taken for implementing this project on a war-
footing.

104. Steps will be taken for identifying and removing salinity of
drinking water in coastal villages and supply of good drinking
water will be ensured.

105. Up to Rs 1 lakh subsidy will be given for digging farm ponds
(Pannai kuttai) in dry lands by farmers for rain water harvesting.

106. Study will be undertaken for using water coming to Bhavani
river from Upper Bhavani for irrigation in Tamil Nadu.

107. From Badedhal lake in Krishnagiri, Vennamalli,
Achamangalam, Sigarapalli, Kappalvadi, Kodamanpatti canal
and Sudampatti, Orappam, Palinayapalli, Rasipalli, Kettur,
Sentharapalli, Modikuppam, Nakkalpatti, Pudur, Karim Sahib
lakes will be linked.

108. From the river mouth of Cuddalore Port till the river mouth of
vellan river near Bhuvanagiri for a stretch of 40 kiliometers,
there is no channel in between to divert flood waters to the sea.
Hence, Cultivation in about 10,000 acres of farm land in that
area gets flooded during stormy season and farmers greatly
affected. Hence a canal will be formed between Alppakkam
and Poondiankuppam in east Paravanar to carry excess water

44

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
to the sea. Shutters will be provided in the canal to control water
movement from both the canal and the sea. This Scheme,
which is a long pending demand of the people of cuddalore
district will be excuted on a war footing.
Cauvery River water sharing

109. Even though 1924 agreement between Tamil Nadu and
Karnataka for sharing of Cauvery water is a continuing Pact,
Karnataka took a stand that the Agreement had lapsed in 1974
and hence, the DMK Government took various steps to protect
the Tamil Nadu farmers.

Besides adopting a resolution in Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly in 1971, when the DMK was in power, for setting up a
tribunal for finding a solution for Cauvery river water-sharing
issue, asimilar resolution was adopted in the year 1990, when
again the DMK was in office. Accepting the demand made by
the DMK government, the union government headed by Thiru
V.P.Singh constituted Cauvery Tribunal on 02.06.1990. The
Tribunal passed interim award on 28.07.1990. The final award
of the Tribunal was also released on 05.02.2007 when the DMK
was in office.

In spite of the release of the final award by the Cauvery
Tribunal, Karnataka Government is reluctant to accept the
award and release the quantity of water awarded to Tamil Nadu

45

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
and hence, the Cauvery delta farmers are put to sufferings. The
DMK will continue to urge the Centre to immediately constitute
Cauvery River Water Management Board and Regulatory
Committee, required for legally enforcing the final award of the
Cauvery Tribunal.
Sethusamudram Project

110. The 150 years dream project of the people of Tamil Nadu which
Kamarajar, Arignar Anna and his followers had been
demanding for long, the Sethusamudram project, which could
create large number of employment opportunities in southern
States including Tamil Nadu, was inaugurated on 02.07.2005
at a cost of Rs 2500 crores and when most of the work was
completed, the project was hampered by reactionary forces.
The DMK government will strive hard to break the hurdles and
implement this project on the route acceptable to all the
sections of people to achieve economic development of
southern Tamil Nadu.

Katchatheevu

111. Since 1974 the DMK had been pressing the Centre for
redeeming the ownership of Katchatheevu. The clauses in the
pact of 1974 providing for rights of Tamil Nadu fishermen for
fishing, drying fishing nets, performing prayers in the church
were taken away in 1976 during emergency. Attacks and

46

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
arrests of Tamil Nadu fishermen near Katchtheevu by the Sri
Lankan Navy are on the increase. To protect the Tamil
fishermen from Sri Lankan attack efforts will be taken for
reclaiming Katchatheevu.
Fishermen welfare

112. The DMK party continues to severely condemn Lankan forces
attacking Tamil Nadu fishermen, arresting and killing them. The
Sri Lankan government made no or very little attempt for
solving this issue. Besides urging the Centre to find a
permanent solution to this issue, The DMK will urge the Centre
to set up crisis management centres in the coastal areas of
both the countries.

113. Fishermen, who willingly came forward to rescue people during
the recent floods in Chennai city, Cuddalore, Tiruvallur and
Kancheepuram districts, are often affected by frequent storms
in Tamil Nadu, which has a long coast. To protect them from
this, 5 lakh houses will be constructed for fishermen living in the
coastal districts of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram,
Villupuram, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Pudukottai,
Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari
through Singaravelar Housing Board set up during the
previous DMK rule. As the houses constructed by Slum
Clearance Board and allotted to fishermen 25 years back are in

47

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

dilapidated condition, those houses will be demolished and

new quarters will be constructed by Fishermen Housing Board.

114. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to establish National
Commission for the welfare of Fishermen to protect the
interests of all coastal and inland fishermen in India.

115. The DMK will take steps for the inclusion of fishermen
community in the list of Scheduled Tribes as marine tribes and
extension of all concessions applicable to them.

116. As the recommendations of Meenakumari Committee
constituted for formulating deep sea fishing policy are against
the interests of Indian fishermen, the DMK will urge the Centre
to withdraw that report.

117. Suitable arrangements will be made for issue of death
certificate on the basis of affidavit of fishermen associations to
overcome the precarious condition of the families of fishermen
dying in deep sea, waiting for seven years to get the death
certificate.

118. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to avert loss of life of
fishermen engaged in deep-sea fishing by arranging to create
seamless communication network system along with Indian
Navy and Coast Guard.

119. If fishermen meet with accidents during fishing and rendered
incapable of carrying on fishing occupation, steps will be taken

48

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
for them to obtain loan facilities for engaging in alternative
occupation.

120. Arrangement will be made for conducting grievance redressal
meetings once in three months chaired by District Collector for
redressing the grievances of fishermen.

121. The DMKwill urge to reintroduce the National Savings Scheme
for fishermen at the ratio of 1:1:1 among fishermenl State and
Central governments as it was earlier.

122. Additional police stations and emergency rescue teams will be
setup in coastal areas.

123. New schools will be started in fishermen areas. Further, the
elementary and middle schools started in fishermen areas like
Manapadu, Alandhalai and Kallamozhi will be upgraded.

124. Children of fishermen will be given preference in the admission
of students in Fisheries College.

125. The present rate of Rs.2000 as relief during the period of fishing
holiday will be increased to Rs.5000. Further the assistance
paid to fishermen as monsoon relief will also be increased from
Rs.4000 to Rs. 5000.

126. The quantity of 1500 litre diesel presently given to motor boats
at subsidized price will be increased to 2000 litres. Similarly the
subsidized fuel of 300 litres supplied for catamarans, country
boats and fibre boats will be increased to 500 litres.

49

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

127. The quantity of kerosene supplied at subsidized price will be
increased from 200 litres to 300 litres.

128. Loan with subsidy will be given for buying boats, fishing nets,
catamaran, search light etc required for fishermen through
fishermen co-operative societies. For inland fishermen, 50
percent subsidy will be given for the purchase of “parisil” and
fishing nets

129. Steps will be taken to provide tractors required for redeeming
boats at requisite places through Fisheries department and
given ata nominal rent.

130. Ice boxes supplied to those fishing in boats like FRP- IB
catamaran during the previous DMK rule will be supplied again.
Similarly ice boxes will be supplied to women selling fish.

131. Subsidy of 20 percent given for fishermen using engines in
boats will be increased.

132. The fishermen of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin
districts are using OBM machines for fishing due to the different
nature of the sea and hence, a minimum of 750 OBM machines
will be imported and supplied to the fisherman.

133. Fish landing sites will be established in all fishing villages.

134. The families of missing fishermen during fishing are paid
assistance of Rs. 250 per day for two years. Similarly the

50

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
families of fishermen missing in sea while fishing in large boats
(thonis) will also be given financial assistance.

135. Groynes will be constructed to prevent sea-erosion in required
coastal fishing villages.

Weavers welfare

136. Steps will be taken to restart Perarignar Anna Silk Park in
Kancheepuram which was announced during the DMK rule
and schemes will be formulated to benefit 25,000 weavers.

137. Separate cooperative bank for weavers will be established.

138. Tamil Nadu handloom weavers will be given priority for weaving
dhotis and sarees for the government for free distribution to
people. Similarly production of cloth for school uniform will be
given exclusively to Tamil Nadu power loom weavers.

139. The government will set up procurement stations and supply
yarn to weavers' societies so that weavers get yarn without
difficulty.

140. To protect handloom weavers the list of garment varieties
reserved for handloom sector will be reviewed.

141. Steps will be taken for procuring cotton and silk cloth stagnating
in cooperative societies through Co-optex.

142. Separate Textile Commission will be established for upgrading
the textile sector.

51

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

143. Steps will be taken to modernize the Tamil Nadu Zari factory
and improve production standards.

144. Loan assistance with subsidy will be given for setting up silk
yarn spinning units.

145. The present subsidy of 10% for the procurement of silk/cotton
yarn through National Handloom Development Corporation
will be enhanced to 15 %.

146. 100 units of free power every two months supplied at present to
handloom weavers will be increased to 200 units.

147. 100 units of free power will be supplied to power looms
attached to residence.

148. Request by the weavers for increasing free power for power
loom to 750 units from the present 500 units will be considered.
This facility will be extended to mat weaving power looms also.

149. Steps will be taken for increasing the subsidy for weavers to
construct houses from Rs. 2.30 lakhs to Rs .3 lakhs. This
scheme will be extended to urban weavers also.

150. The interest rates on loans granted to weavers through
cooperative societies will be reduced from 12 percent to 8
percent.

151. The amount of assistance paid to weavers who are members of
the savings and protection scheme will be increased from
Rs.1000 to Rs.1300.

52

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

152. Health insurance scheme for weavers family introduced in
DMK rule will be re implemented.

153. Steps will be taken for immediate payment of rebate dues to all
cooperative societies.

Labour welfare

154. During the previous DMK rule in Tamil Nadu separate welfare
boards for unorganised workers engaged in various
occupations were constituted for the improvement of their
living condition and to protect their future. They were extended
social security assistance like medical insurance, pension,
education and marriage assistance.

The ADMK government has neglected the unorganised
workers welfare boards and denied all the above-said facilities
to about two crore unorganised workers.

When the DMK comes to power, besides activating the
already formed welfare boards in full swing more welfare
0௦8௭05 will be formed for workers who are not already
included. Further, pension, medical aid, educational
assistance, accident compensation to members of these
boards will be hiked.

155. Pension scheme for transport workers introduced during DMK
rule in 1998 has been stopped by ADMK regime from 1.4.2003.
Action will be taken for re introducing the scheme to all
transport workers.

53

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

156. Contract workers who are presently working in HR&CE, ,
TWAD Board, TN Aids control board, local bodies, paper
factories, cooperative spinning mills and many government
departments, overhead tanks maintenance workers in local
bodies, contract workers in TNEB contract workers who have
put in more than 10 years of contractual service will be
considered for regularization.

157. All the cases foisted by ADMK government against workers
agitating for their rights will be withdrawn.

158. The scheme providing equipments to barbers and washer
men, will be extended to cobblers, coconut tree climbers,
potters, tailors, mat weavers and rope spinners at government
cost.

159. For the purchase of auto rickshaw either through 1.1.1. or
Commercial Banks, in cities like Chennai or other towns, asum
of Rs.10,000 will be given as government grant for owner-
driven Auto rickshaws.

160. Salt pan workers will be paid relief of Rs. 5000 during flood and
monsoon period as in the case of fishermen.

161. Aspecialty hospital with at least 50 beds will be constructed in
areas inhabited by beedi workers with assistance from ESIC.

54

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

162. Dhobikhanas will be constructed in Corporation, municipal and
town panchayat areas to help washermen and _ subsidy will be
provided for purchase of equipments by them.

School Education

163. “Samacheer Kalvi’ scheme will be constantly reviewed and
annually upgraded. The government will constitute Academic
Council for Equitable Education consisting of university,
College and school teachers and scholars for improving the
skill of school teachers by imparting training on developments
in science, technology and other subjects, and also improving
methods of learning and teaching.

164. During the previous DMK government English language labs
were set up to train school students to speak fluently. This
scheme has been given up by the present ADMK government.
Steps will be taken for reviving this scheme by entering into
MoU with institutions like British Council.

165. To improve employability and skill development among the
rural youth it is proposed to impart computer training and skill
development training to 25 lakh students and rural youth in all
educational institutions within five years.

166. Steps will be taken for including environment and agriculture as
part of the school syllabus so that students acquire basic
knowledge on environmental issues and agriculture in their

55

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
school education. Likewise steps will be taken to allot atleast
three periods per week for physical education.

167. Necessary facilities will be created for linguistic minorities to
learn their mother tongue also along with Tamil and English in
schools.

168. The decision of the BJP government at the Centre to include
Sanskrit, spoken only by a few, as the third language from the
coming academic year is against the two language formula
introduced by Arignar Anna in Tamil Nadu. This design is
introduced by the Centre as a part of the cultural aggression on
Dravidians. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to
immediately give up this scheme.

169. The present standard of education will be improved by
appointing sufficient number of teachers including Tamil
teachers and providing modern infrastructural facilities in
schools.

170. Milk will be supplied in the mornings to the children of
elementary schools in addition to the Nutritious Meal Scheme.

Higher Education

171. Suitable steps will be taken for waiving educational loans of
students.

56

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

172. Laptops or Tablets with internet facility in 3G/4G technology
with 10Gb per month download usage will be given at
government expenses for 16 Lakhs students studying in higher
secondary schools and colleges in Tamil Nadu.

173. Steps will be taken for the periodic review of higher education
syllabi in professional courses with the involvement of
academicians and technical experts so as to impart
international standard of education and improve employability.

174. During the earlier period, the DMK government had promised
to establish one Medical College in each district and started
Medical Colleges in Tuticorin, Tiruvarur, Villupuram,
Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Kanyakumari districts. Medical
Colleges will be established in the remaining districts also.

175. Efforts will be taken to bring back education, presently included
in Concurrent List, to State List.

176. The government will bear the expenses for education of poor
first generation students, selected for professional courses like
medicine, engineering and agriculture irrespective of caste.

177. Arrangements will be made for teaching languages like
English, French, German, Spanish, Arabic, Mandrin, Japanese
and Russian as per the choice of the students in all colleges
and universities in Tamil Nadu to facilitate employment
opportunity abroad to those students, who are interested.

57

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

178. Coaching classes will be conducted in all district headquarters
to help students who are appearing for the entrance
examinations conducted for admission to IIT, NIT, AIIMS, and
IIM.

179. Coaching centres will be established in Madurai, Trichy, and
Coimbatore for candidates appearing for UPSC examination
like IAS, IPS, IFS, IRS and for candidates appearing for
Group -| , Group -|| and other examinations conducted by
TNPSC and examinations conducted by RRB and Banking
recruitments boards.

180. Certain number of seats in medical colleges in Tamil Nadu are
allocated to the Central pool for which students are selected
through entrance test conducted by the government of India.
As this method of selection fails to conform to the social justice
policies being pursued in Tamil Nadu and the method is also an
impediment for providing special quota for economically
weaker sections, steps will be taken to follow the pattern of not
reserving seats for the central pool, as in the case of Andhra
Pradesh and Maharashtra States.

181. At present there are only the posts of assistant professors and
associate professors in colleges, leading to stagnation in
promotion. Steps will be taken to promote associate
professors, who have put in 8 years of service as professors.

58

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Further, efforts will be taken to regularize part-time lecturers
serving in government colleges.

182. A scheme will be implemented to pay the tuition fees of
students from poor and downtrodden families who are
selected on merit for Engineering and Medicine and not ina
position to pay their fees.

183. The Agricultural College announced during the previous DMK
rule in the year 2011, to be established in Kilvelur,
Nagapattinam District, which was shelved by the present
government, will be established.

Employment opportunities

184. Since the government has granted lease of mining operations
to private operators viz., mining of granite, rare earth mineral,
soil, blue metal, gravel and sand, the government incurs huge
loss of revenue. Opposition parties, media, various other
organisations and common public have been opposing this
private operation, on the ground that large sums of money is
being swindled by private operators. A number of cases
regarding this are being heard by the Courts of Law. In order to
get rid of such malpractices, and ensure that the revenue due
to the governmentis fully realized the following schemes will be
formulated and implemented, which will also help unemployed
youth to earn a reasonable income.

59

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

A commercial organization, under Private Public
Participation (PPP) model consisting of about 2 lakhs
unemployed youth who can invest an amount not less than
Rs. 50,000 each, will be formed. The government will invest a
matching share of Rs.1000 Crores. This organization will
involve in mining and trading of sand and selling granite, rare
earth minerals, sand, blue metal, and gravel etc. Apart from the
government receiving a major share of revenue, the youth who
have invested in these units will get sizeable dividend as
income.

185. The main factors for economic development are science,
technology and new inventions. Further, it also requires
effective combination of natural raw materials, skilled labour
and human resource investment.

In order to encourage new inventors and to ensure
continuing their efforts without hurdles, an Incubation Centre
will be set up by the government to create and provide all
facilities including financial assistance to them and to extend
government's co-operation and security required by them, and
to arrange required space for subjecting their inventions to
field study. Steps will be taken for providing special revolving
fund for this centre.

Arrangements will be made for providing financial
assistance, and necessary equipments. Further the Centre will

60

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
also organize periodic meetings between Inventor and investor
to facilitate marketing of new inventions.

186. A matching grant scheme will be implemented for those
registered in employment exchanges, and wishing to be self
employed, if they come forward to invest up to Rs. One lakh for
a small enterprise. The government will contribute a sum of
Rs. One lakh each on the basis of registration seniority in the
employment exchanges. This scheme will be extended to one
lakh persons in the first phase.

187. The government will formulate a scheme to impact skill training
in employment exchanges with the assistance of private sector
to ensure skill development of those waiting for employment in
the exchanges.

188. The DMK will demand to fill up the vacancies arising in Central
Government PSUs in Tamil Nadu only with candidates
belonging to Tamil Nadu.

189. Appropriate steps will be taken for conducting employment
camps under the chairmanship of District Collector in each
district for those who have completed +2, ITI, polytechnic and
arts and science on the basis of seniority of registration in
employment exchanges and offer jobs in private sector for
One lakh persons every year.

61

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

190. About three lakh persons will get jobs by filling up the existing
vacancies in government departments. Moreover steps will be
taken for starting new industries to create employment
opportunities for one lakh youth per annum.

191. The existing vacancies of 54,233 of teacher posts in
government schools will be immediately filled up after the DMK
government is formed. In future, the Government will take
steps to fill up the vacancies arising in government schools
then and there.

192. The services of part time computer teachers, who are working
in government schools and government aided schools, will be
regularized. Further, steps will be taken to appoint computer
teachers in all the schools in Tamil Nadu.

193. The services of part time teachers, who teach Music, Painting,
physical education in the government schools will be
regularized.

194. The previous DMK rule had announced unemployment
assistance to youth who had completed their education and
registered with the employment exchange in the year 2006.
Under the scheme, present assistance will be increased from
Rs.150 to Rs.300 for those who have completed 10th standard,
and from Rs.200 to Rs .400 for those who have completed +2,
from Rs.300 to Rs.600 for graduates.

62

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

195. Preference in government jobs will be given to the first

generation graduate in a family.
Industrial Development

196. New approaches will be formulated to help large, medium and
small industries, rural industries and micro industries to
function effectively with the help of financial institutions and
Government of India organisations. All efforts will be taken to
improve industrial development and create employment and
self-employment opportunities and put Tamil Nadu back into
development path in industrial sector. Further, to attract
investors in medium and large scale industries, tax holiday for
a period of notless than 5 years will be allowed.

197. If medium and large scale industries recruit atleast 75 per cent
of employees, who are born in Tamil Nadu, a certain
percentage of wages (not less than a total of Rs.50 lakhs for
major industries and Rs.25 lakhs for medium industries) for the
first 240 days will be borne by the State.

198. The problems and issues of small and micro industries which
are facing financial burden and nearing closure due to
maladministration of the ADMK government will be taken for
consideration and examination by a panel of experts consisting
of government, financial institutions and industries so as to
advise the entrepreneurs with a suitable suggestions for the
successful running of industry within a period of 100 days.

63

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

199. Inthe absence of any legal mechanism for price control on raw
materials required for industries, some firms in Tamil Nadu
dominate in fixing the prices of raw materials produced in the
State which has also paved way for monopoly trade practice.
Hence, small, medium, and large industries have to buy raw
materials for higher prices and also have to fix higher prices for
their produce. As the price of the same type of products
manufactured in other States are cheaper, it is difficult to
market the products manufactured in our State. Hence, to
prevent closure of small, medium and large industries and
workers losing jobs, steps will be taken to allow domestic
industries to purchase raw materials from other States, where
they are available at fair price.

200. To ensure uninterrupted power supply to industries, and
industrial estates dedicated power lines will be established for
them.

201. Entrepreneurs, who come forward to start industries in Tamil
Nadu, will be given single window clearance within 100 days. If
written clearance is not received by the entrepreneur, it will be
construed that permission is granted and entrepreneur can
proceed with this project.

202. During DMK rule, platinum and related mineral deposits were
found in Namakkal, Erode, and Coimbatore districts, and on
01.07.2010 the Geological Survey of India and Tamil Nadu

64

ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
Mineral Corporation entered into an agreement to undertake a
study on their commercial viability. But there is no information
on the execution of the agreement. After the formation of DMK
government, continuous efforts will be taken to proceed with
the study and for mining of platinum, a metal which is costlier
than gold.

203. Presently production of ethanol in sugar mills is restricted to
only 5 per cent . Since the DMK has decided to introduce
prohibition, the production of alcoholic beverages will be
banned in the State. Hence permission will be granted for the
production of ethanol up to 10 percent in the sugar mills.

204. As the number of rubber factories has come down in
Kanyakumari district, people who had been working in these
factories for long are suffering without income. To address this
issue, more rubber factories will be started in Kanyakumari
district.

205. As was existing in the previous DMK rule, suitable steps will be
taken for providing 15 percent reservation for small and micro
industries for procuring materials required for government and
public sector units in the first phase and 10 percent price
concession of the tender price.

206. As announced by the previous DMK government to ensure
economic development of southern districts of Tamil Nadu, an

65

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO
industrial corridor will be set up from Madurai to Tuticorin.
Industrial corridor set up between Chennai and Sripembuthur
during the previous DMK Government will also be extended up
to Hosur.

207. Industrial training centers will be setup in various parts of Tamil
Nadu to train more entrepreneurs to acquire sufficient
knowledge on value added _ products.

208. Financial assistance will be given to first generation
engineering graduates at lower rate of interest to start new
industry.

209. TIIlC willextend industrial credit up to Rs 25 lakhs to all micro
industries at lower interest rate.

210. New industrial training institutes will be set up in industrial
towns.

211. Efforts will be made for starting Indian Institute of Foundries in
Coimbatore.

212. Steps will be taken to expand the integrated steel rolling mills in
Salem and to increase its output.

213. Low tension power supply to industries will be increased from
150 H.P to 200 H.P.

214. The power tariff rate under rule | B (20 HP to 40 HP) will be
changed to power tariff rate under rule Ill A1 for tapeless power
loom.

66

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

215. Leather goods parks will be set up in Dindigul, Vellore and
Chennai districts.

216. Mango pulp processing units will be established in the areas of
Krishnagiri and Natham where mango is cultivated on a large
scale.

217. Getting of permission from the panchayat union to set up
poultry farm will be restored, instead of approaching the
director of Town and country planning.

218. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre for doubling the
royalty amount paid by Central PSUs to States.

219. Ascheme to reduce the TDS level of effluents from the knitwear
and leather industries in Dindugul, Tirupur, Karur, Erode,
Salem and Aruppukkottai in which effluents treated through
evaporation method using organic compounds.

220. Efforts will be made to start an Aircraft spare parts
manufacturing industry in Tamil Nadu.

Electricity

221. All steps will be taken on war-footing to increase power
generation and uninterrupted power supply will be ensured for
all requirements including domestic, industrial and agricultural
needs.

67

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

222. At present Electricity bills are paid on the basis of bi-monthly
reading. Since this has led to excess expenditure to
consumers. Payment process will be changed to monthly
billing system from bi-monthly system.

223. Presently Electricity bills are paid through banks, online and
directly in the EB offices. In addition to these, the assessor will
also be empowered to receive payment while going door-to-
door for meter reading.

224. Steps will be taken on a war-footing to execute Udankudi
power project started during the DMK regime and which was
stuck in a legal tangle because of the inefficient ADMK
administration.

225. Steps will be taken for generation of electricity in all the Sugar
mills in Tamil Nadu, and power purchase agreement will be
entered with Tangedco, for purchase of power.

226. In order to encourage power generation of not less than 10 MW
from agro solid waste, Tangedco will give priority to setup such
plants under public private participation in every district and
procure power on a priority basis. Special concessions will be
given if unemployed graduates jointly execute this project.

227. Steps will be taken to install solar power system in all
government office buildings, educational institutions and
temples.

68

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

228. Efforts will be taken to execute the long pending Cheyyur
thermal power project of NTPC started during DMK rule and
hampered due to non cooperation of the ADMK regime.

229. Loan with subsidy will be given for solar power systems set up
in houses.

230. Exclusive power lines will be setup in the areas of Tirunelveli,
Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Tirupur, Dindigul, Pollachi,
Udumalapet and Theni to receive power generation through
wind mills to avoid transmission loss.

231. Underground power cables will be laid in important towns to
avoid accident and theft.

232. During the previous DMK rule, power connection was given to
all houses with family cards in all areas of Nilgiri district. Steps
will be taken to continue this process which was stopped by the
ADMK regime.

Public Distribution System

233. All applications for New Family Cards will be processed and
cards issued within 15 days from the date of application.

234. The supply of 20 kgs. of rice to card holders will continue.

235. All fair price shops under various departments in Tamil Nadu
will be brought under one umbrella.

69

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 வள்‌, MANIFESTO

236. Steps will be taken for issuing smart cards replacing the old
family cards issued under PDS. In order to avoid confusion in
PDS, the entire system will be computerized. Moreover details
of the stock of goods available in fair price shops will be
exhibited through electronic information boards.

237. During the previous DMK rule, all goods were made available
for Family Card Holders on all working days of the month. But
the present ADMK government provides supply only on select
days. The DMK will ensure that all goods available on all days.

238. Steps will be taken to supply sugar, maida, pulses varieties
and cooking oil in fair price shops in packets to ensure hygiene
and correct weight.

239. Three LED bulbs, which will consume lesser power, will be
supplied at a subsidized price for all card holders.

Tourism

240. To the benefit of tourists and to attract foreign exchange in big
way and increase employment opportunities, a Master Plan
with modern outlook will be prepared and implemented by
associating private bodies, other State governments and
foreign countries for developing all kinds of tourism like
educational tourism, heritage tourism, religious tourism, hill
tourism, entertainment tourism and health tourism.

70

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

241. Steps will be taken for setting up “Thirukural Research Centre”
in Kanyakumari and copies of Tirukkural translated in various
languages and research works on Tirukkural will be made
available for public.

242. Increased seating permits of 20+1 will be issued to tourist
vehicles from the present 12+1 permit.

243. Tourists from all over India are visiting hill stations like
Kutralam and hill temples like Tiruvannamalai, Palani and
Tirutani. Special schemes will be formulated for the
environmental protection of these hills and protect the natural
greenery of these hills by promoting of forestation and, to
provide facilities like sufficient hotels, drinking water, toilet and
transport.

244. Steps will be taken for establishing tourist homes and
restaurants on behalf of Tamil Nadu Tourism Department in
important tourist towns and on national highways within a
distance of 100 kms.

245. Steps will be taken for making available facilities like sufficient
number of hotels, drinking water, toilet, transport and lodging
for the convenience of people coming from all over India to
Saivite, Vaishnavite temples, mosques and churches and
other religious shrines in Tamil Nadu.

71

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

246. Infrastructural facilities in important tourism towns of
Mamallapuram, Kutralam, Ooty, Kodaikanal, Kanniyakumari,
Srirangam, Gingee, Rameswaram, Madurai, Nagapattinam
and Tranquebar will be improved and developed.

Welfare of artisans

247. Sculptures, bronze statues, lamps, wooden statues, clay toys,
palm leaf crafts, etc; in which artisans of Tamil Nadu have been
engaged since Sangam age, are slowly becoming rare due to
the present day mechanization. Hence, to recover and
safeguard the artistic skill of ancient Tamils and to encourage
people to engage in that work, the State government will set up
handicrafts training centres at Swamimalai, Kumbakonam,
Nachiarkoil in Thanjavur district and llupur and Varapur in
Pudukottai district.

248. Subsidized loan will be granted to the goldsmiths to purchase
equipments which are used for making ornaments through
co-operative institutions.

249. To protect the interest of ornament-makers, efforts will be made
for imparting suitable training to them and appointing them as
jewel-assessors in all banks.

250. Permission will be granted to bricks kiln owners to dig and
make use of the soil from their patta lands. Pottery
manufacturers will be permitted to use 80 units to 160 units of
soil.

72

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
Women’s welfare

251. Initiatives will be taken for increasing the maternity leave of six
months granted to women in government service to 9 months.

252. Ascheme will be devised to provide antenatal insurance for the
mother and the child in the womb. This insurance will cover
emergency medical care for the baby in the womb and mother
in case of necessity. The child will continue to avail the benefit
even after birth.

253. AMobile App will be created which will help to call the police or
family members for ensuring safety of working women.

254. Cancer Awareness programs will be conducted among
women. Tests for the detection of Mouth Cancer, Breast
Cancer, and Pelvic Cancer, which affects mostly women, will
be conducted in all the government hospitals and steps will be
taken to provide specialty medical treatment for the affected
women.

255. Girls between the age of 11 years and 18 years are mostly
affected by anemia. To prevent this, periodic health camps will
be conducted in all the girls Schools and treatment will be
given. Further, they will be advised of nutritious food.

256. Steps will be taken to set up Security Committees, as per law, to
protect women working in spinning mills and knitwear
industries from sexual harassments and other problems.

73

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

257. The widows of Tamil Nadu are leading a pathetic life. Their
plight and demands are not paid adequate attention by the
present government. Steps will be taken for passing legislation
in Tamil Nadu for giving economic security for their life and
guaranteeing the future of their children and also ensuring
prevention of using bad epithets against widows.

258. The financial assistance given under EVR Maniammaiyar
Marriage Assistance Scheme, will be increased from
Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for
conducting the marriage of women without any educational
qualification.

Financial assistance will be increased from Rs.50,000 to
Rs.60,000 and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women graduates or women diploma holders.

259. Annai Teresa Memorial Orphan Girls Marriage Assistance
Scheme, will be increased from Rs.25,000 to Rs. 30,000 and
4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the marriage of women
without any educational qualification.

Financial assistance will be increased from Rs.50,000 to
Rs.60,000 and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women graduates or women diploma holders.

74

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

260. Under Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammaiyar Poor Women
Marriage Assistance Scheme, financial assistance will be
increased from Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 and 4 gram gold for
Thali’ for conducting the marriage of women who have studied
up to 10th standard.

For Adi Dravidar poor women who have studied up to fifth
class, the amount of marriage assistance will be increased
from Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 along with 4 gram gold for 'Thali’

Financial assistance will be increased from Rs.50,000 to
Rs.60,000,and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women graduates or women diploma holders.

261. Under Dharmambal Ammaiyar Memorial widow's Remarriage
Scheme financial assistance will be increased from Rs.25,000
to Rs.30,000 and 4 gram gold for 'Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women without any educational qualification.

Financial assistance will be increased from Rs.50,000 to
Rs.60,000 and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women graduates or women diploma holders.

262. Under Dr.Muthulakshami Reddy Memorial Pregnant Women
Financial Assistance will be increased from Rs.12,000 to
Rs.18,000 that is Rs.3000 per month will be paid during the
period of pregnancy.

75

ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

263. Annai Sivakami Ammaiyar Memorial Girl Children Protection
Scheme, will be increased from Rs.50,000 to Rs .60,000 and
will be deposited in bank for 20 years in the name of the first girl
child born in a family and the parents undergo family planning
surgery. Ifa second girl child is born, the amount will be divided
among the two girl children if the parents undergo family
planning surgery. From Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 and will be
deposited for 20 years. After these girl children reach the age of
5 years educational assistance Rs.200 per month will be paid
up to the age of 20.

264. Working women hostels will be set up in all districts.

265. During the previous DMK rule, only women were appointed as
primary school teachers in Tamil Nadu. Subsequently, due to
the intervention of the Court 75% reservation was given to
women. Further 30% reservation was given to women in all
governmentjobs. 50% reservation was given in the elections to
local bodies.

Though the Women's Reservation Bill for providing
33 percent reservation for them in Parliament and Assemblies
has been introduced in parliament, it has not been passed till
today. The DMK will continue to press the Centre to pass the
bill.
76

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
Self-Help Groups

266. The women self —help groups were started in 1989 by the
DMK government. Advanced industrial training will be imparted
to Women Self-Help Groups (Women SHGs) to function more
efficiently. Further, the number of Women SHGs will be
increased and the loan assistance for them will be increased
from Rs.30,000 to Rs.50,000.

267. Daily allowances and transport expenses paid for the training
of members of Women SHGs have been drastically reduced
during the ADMK regime. Hence, training for women itself was
affected. With the installation of DMK government, these
allowances will be paid at a higher rate for SHGs.'

268. Poomalai scheme’ started during DMK rule for marketing
products made by Women SHGs in cities will be made
functional more efficiently.

269. Self Help Groups for unemployed youth will be started in line
with that of the women SHGs.

Welfare of Backward classes and
Most backward classes

270. Due to the continued struggles by Thanthai Periyar and Arignar
Anna in Tamil Nadu and pressure exerted by Kamarajar, the
then Prime Minister Nehru introduced the first amendment to

77

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

the Constitution which was adopted by the parliament. The
amendment to clause 15 (4) of the Constitution provides
reservation for socially and educationally backward classes.
The demand made by a section of the people to include the
word ‘economically’ was not accepted by both Pandit Nehru
and the then Law minister Dr.Ambedkar. But now an income
ceiling has been fixed by the union government for providing
reservation under OBCs category. The DMK will continue to
urge the Centre to remove the income ceiling on the basis of
the verdict of the Supreme Court.

Though the policy of the DMK is to usher in a casteless
society, it is also the policy of the party that reservation should
continue as long as castes exist. Similarly, it is the policy of the
DMK that "creamy layer’ should not be there in OBC
reservation. At the same time, as long as creamy layer concept
continues, the DMK will continue to urge the Centre to increase
the ceiling of annual income from Rs 6 lakhs to Rs 15 lakhs
(except salary and agricultural income) as recommended by
the National Backward Classes Commission.

Further the DMK will also urge for equal status for the
National Backward Classes Commission on par with the
National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Tribes.

78

ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

271. The DMKwill urge the Centre to amend the Constitution so that
the States can determine the quantum of reservation according
to the size of the population of SC, ST and OBCs in those
States.

272. Due to the efforts of the DMK government, 27 percent
reservation was provided for other backward classes (OBCs)
at the Centre during the National Front Government headed by
former Prime Minister V.P.Singh. After 25 years, according to
the information obtained under RTI as on 1.1.2015 less than
12 percent OBCs were working in union ministries and various
departments. Of 79,483 employees working in various
departments of the Union government under A,B,C and D
categories only 9,040 belonged to OBC. Only less than 9
percent in UPSC and 6.67 in Department of Personnel and
Training are OBCs. Of the 6,879 working in DoPT, SCs
constitute 12.91 percent and S.T 4 percent. It is a shocking
revelation that among the officers in the President's
Secretariat, there is not a single OBC. Only 5 percent of A
category officers in Central higher education department are
OBCs. And among employees working in other categories only
10 percent are OBCs. For appointments under D category in
Central services, 27 percent reservation has not been
followed and only the percentage of reservation followed by the

79

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
respective States is followed by the Union government also.
OBCs reservation in the States Varies from 8 percent up to
27 percent in their appointments. Hence the DMK will continue
to urge the Centre to follow 27 percent reservation in all jobs in
Central services and not to follow the percentage fixed by
various states.

273. Action will be taken for providing 27 percent reservation for
OBCs in private sector as recommended by the National
Backward Classes Commission. Similarly, we will urge to
provide 15 and 7.5 percent reservation for SCs and STs
respectively in the private sector.

274. Inthe 112 year history of the Madras High Court, the first Judge
from the Adi Dravidar community Thiru.A.Varatharajan was
appointed during DMK government on 14.2.1973, as an
additional Judge of Madras High Court. Subsequently, he was
elevated to the Supreme Court on the recommendation of the
DMK government. He was the first Supreme Court Judge from
Adi Dravidar Community since its Constitution.

The system of reservation is in practice in subordinate
judiciary. But there is no system of reservation in the
appointment of judges to the High Courts and to the Supreme
Court. The representation of the members of the Backward
Classes, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in

80

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

the Judges of High Courts of all States is very meagre
excepting in the High Court of Madras. As nearly 400 Judges
have to appointed in various High Courts, DMK will urge the
Central governmentto bring a legislation to provide reservation
in these appointments to Backward Classes, the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the various High Courts of
India.

275. The Centre had accepted caste based census after a
discussion in the parliament. This was a longtime demand of
SCs and OBCs. But the Centre conducted caste based census
only among the people below poverty line. But even this data
was not released to the public, inspite of the demand by the
DMK members in Parliament. The DMK will demand that caste
based census already available with the government should be
released immediately. Further, the yardstick of poverty line is
not a permanent one. Hence, the DMK will continue to urge the
Centre to take caste based census for the entire nation.

276. The DMK will urge the Centre to implement 27 percent
reservation for OBCs in the admission of students and
appointment of teachers in Central educational institutions like
IITs, and IIMs, as per Mandal Commission recommendations.

277. Efforts will be made for listing Oddar, Boyar, Pandi Kotta castes
as asingle community.

81

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes welfare

278. The backlog vacancies of SC and ST _ will be filled without
break apart from strictly implementing the reservation for S.C
and S.T as practiced in the previous DMK governments.

279. If the first generation girl children belonging to the SC, ST
parents, who are agricultural labourer, are selected for
admission to professional courses in government colleges,
the government will bear the cost of education including hostel
facilities. The same facility will be available to the children of the
inter caste couple if one of the parents is from the S.C or S.T
community.

280. The special component plan executed since financial year
1980-81 with Central assistance for the development of Adi
Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes is not properly implemented by
the ADMK regime. This scheme will be implemented properly
so that the benefits reach SC, ST communities in time.

281. Action will be taken for reactivating Panchami Land
Redemption Commission set up during the previous DMK rule.

282. The DMK government will review and improve the basic
facilities available in the hostels of SC, ST students and revise
the grant for their food expenditure according to the prevailing
price rise.

82

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

283. The annual scholarships of the Adi Dravidar and Scheduled
Tribe students will be increased.

284. Steps will be taken for including Narikuravar community in the
ST list.

Welfare of sanitary workers

285. According to The Prohibition of Employment as Manual
Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013, action will be
taken to abolish the system of manual scavenging immediately
by setting up monitoring committees at the State and district
levels. Aseparate scheme will be formulated to rehabilitate the
sanitary workers hitherto engaged in manual night soil
carrying.

286. Priority will be given for underground drainage system and
solid waste management to get rid of open sewerages in towns
and cities. This will be executed in the next five years. And the
sanitary workers who are engaged in this occupation for
generations will be relived and alternative employment will be
ensured for them.

287. Asum of Rs. 3 Lakhs will be given as compensation to the
families of those who die of asphyxiation while working in
underground drainages and pits.

288. A weekly holiday will be granted for all sanitary workers. If they
work on those holidays they will be paid overtime wages.

83

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

289. If sanitary workers die during work, their heirs will be
immediately given government jobs on the basis of their
educational qualifications.

290. Steps will be taken to give promotion in the same department
for the sanitary workers who have passed 10th standard.

291. The demands regarding service, salary and pension of the
sanitary workers employed in village panchayat, government
schools, government hospitals, government students hostels,
municipalities, corporations and town panchayats will be
considered and redressed.

Welfare of Minorities

292. During the DMK rule all concessions and rights available for
SCs were extended to Dalits who had converted to Buddhism.
Likewise DMK will continue to urge the Centre to include Dalit
Christians in SC list and implement the recommendations of
the commission headed by Justice Ranganath Misra.

293. The DMK will continue to urge the Centre to take up steps to
implement the recommendations of Justice Sachar
committee, to enable the minorities to get their fair share in
education and employment.

294. A special scheme for educational development will be
implemented in the areas, where the Minorities are

84

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
educationally and economically backward, particularly for the
benefit of women of minority communities.

295. Properties of Wakf Board will be recovered from

encroachments and protected.
Welfare of Differently-abled persons

Whenever the differently-abled agitated for the
implementation of their genuine demands during ADMK
regime, the police mercilessly attacked them. This has also
resulted in the loss of life. After formation of the DMK
government, which had earlier introduced many good
schemes including a welfare board for their betterment, would
implement special schemes for differently-abled person.

296. According to the provisions of Persons with Disabilities Act
1995, a co-ordination committee should be formed in every
State to decide on comprehensive policies for the welfare of the
differently-abled persons. For the past 5 years, the ADMK
government has failed to set up such committee in Tamil Nadu.
The DMK government will set up the co-ordination committee
immediately. Steps will also be taken to reduce the eligibility
criteria for availing disability allowance from 60% to 40%. to
help more number of beneficiaries.

297. Free bus pass will be given 1௦ differently-abled and an assistant
to accompany them in ordinary government buses.

85

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

298. The monthly assistance of Rs.1000 paid to unemployed
differently-abled will be increased to Rs .1500.

299. Smartcards will be issued to differently-abled persons.

300. Three wheelers will be provided to differently-abled students.

301. Action will be taken for fully implementing 3% reservation for
differently-abled persons in governmentjobs.

302. Ramp facilities and toilets for use by differently-abled persons
will be provided in all public places like government offices,
educational institutions, hospitals and bus stands.

303. In order to create self-employment opportunities for differently-
abled persons, training will be imparted in [115 and loan facility
with grant will be extended.

304. Steps will be taken for allocating residential quarters for
differently-abled persons in TNHB and Slum Clearance Board
quarters.

Welfare of Traders

305. Interest free loan of Rs.2000, repayable on a weekly basis will
be provided to petty traders like street vendors selling
vegetables, fish, flowers and fruits in head loads, push carts
and pavements, and dhobis, footwear workers, tea, fruit juice,
tender coconut sellers etc., to save them from usury. A
regulatory committee consisting of local bodies, police, trade

86

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
representatives, and representatives of residents would be
setup in each town to protect their interests.

306. Allowing foreign direct investment in multi brand retail will be
detrimental to the interest of lakhs of small traders and workers
dependant on them. When the Government of India
introduced this legislation, they had assured the members of
Parliament belonging to DMK that FDI will not be brought in
those states where the state governments do not give their
consent. They had also carried out an amendment for the
same. Hence the DMK government will not permit FDI in retail
trade at any stage.

307. Steps will be taken for relaxing the rule for payment of 25% of
tax imposed when traders appeal against the pre assessment
orders by commercial tax officers.

308. Steps will be taken to allow filing of returns by small traders
annually instead of filing monthly returns as in the past.

309. Traders welfare board will be revamped, membership
enrolment regularized and action will be taken for effective
functioning.

310. Twenty one articles including matches, crackers, candle were
removed by the Government of India from the list of small
industries. Efforts will be made to reinclude them in the list of
SSls.

87

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

311. Trade centres will be established in Madurai, Tuticorin and
Tiruchi.

312. Government will extend support and assistance to cottage
industries like salt production, silver anklet production, bronze
industry, silver lamp manufacturing, vessel manufacturing
which are becoming sick and take required action to develop
them.'

313. Cracker wick industry', where a number of women are
employed, will be declared as cottage industry with suitable
safeguards.

314. “Small Traders Self-Help Groups' will be formed for the welfare
of small traders.

315. Sale of medicine through online will be banned.

316. Thesale of Chinese crackers in Tamil Nadu will be banned.

Government Employees and Teachers

317. The ADMK government introduced on 1.4.2003 the new
participatory pension scheme for government employees and
teachers. This scheme is vehemently opposed by various
employees unions. The new pension scheme is not
implemented in the states of West Bengal and Tripura in India.
Hence, steps will be taken for cancelling the new pension
scheme and reintroduce the old pension scheme _ for
government employees and teachers.

88

ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

318. Steps will be taken for constituting Eighth Pay Commission and
the State government will extend the salary benefits according
to the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission of
Central Government.

319. In the event of the death of government employees and
teachers, while in service, the present family welfare fund of
Rs.1.5 lakh will be increased to Rs. 5 lakh. There will be no
change in the recovery of Rs 30 per month from the
government employees for this scheme.

320. The ADMK government had dismissed Makkal Nala
Paniyalargal, the people welfare workers, en-masse. Hence
they had sought the intervention of the Court. The Supreme
Court had ordered re-instatement of all Makkal Nala
Paniyalargal. But the ADMK government had filed a review
petition in the Supreme Court. Besides reinstating Makkal
Nala Paniyalargal (MNP) dismissed by the ADMK governmet,
steps will be taken to make nutritious meal workers, makkal
nala paniyalargal, road workers and Anganwadi workers as
government employees subject to governmentrules.

321. AsumofRs. 5 Lakhs as family benefit and suitable jobs for their
heirs will be provided to Makkal Naala Paniyalarkal who had
passed away when they were out of job during the ADMK
government.

89

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

322. Housing scheme for Teachers, which was in vogue during the
previous DMK government and was shelved by the ADMK
Government, will be reactivated and houses will be
constructed for teachers in all district headquarters. Similarly,
houses will be constructed and allocated for government
employees also.

323. In recognition of the efficiency of government employees and
teachers special fund will be provided and an incentive will be
paid to those who complete 25 years of meritorious service.

324. Fifty percent of the part time service period will be taken into
consideration to work out the pension for the teachers including
teachers of Technical education, who have worked on part time
basis and regularized during the service in School Education
department.

325. The demands relating to service and salary of nutritious meal
workers, Khadi and village industry board workers, mosquito
eradication workers (mazdoor), seed processing workers will
be examined.

326. Medical Insurance Scheme for government employees will be
reviewed and extended.

Welfare of Pensioners

327. Identity cards will be issued to all retirees from government.

The system of government pensioners visiting the treasuries
90

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
annually to submit Life Certificate will be changed and they
would be permitted to submit life certificate in the nationalised
banks from where they receive pension. The rule for payment
of Rs 50 every year for this life certificate will be removed.
Further, Medical allowance for pensioners will be increased.

328. Action will be taken for increasing the pension of Rs 1000 paid
from temple fund to those retiring after serving the temples and
for payments of Pongal bonus to the pensioners.

Welfare of Immigrants

329. The DMK government will take necessary action to ensure the
right to life of Eelam Tamil refugees in Tamil Nadu and fulfill their
livelihood requirements.

330. A Bill was adopted in Tamil Nadu Assembly on
February 10, 2011during the DMK rule for paying special
attention on the welfare of the Tamils living abroad and to
protect their rights. To achieve this a Directorate for the welfare
of the Tamils working abroad will be formed.

331. The decision of the Government of India to merge the Ministry
of Overseas Indian Affairs with Ministry of External Affairs has
caused fear and concern among Indians working abroad.
Hence, the DMK will urge the Centre to give up this attempt and
continue to have a separate Ministry for Overseas Indian
Affairs.

91

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

332. Lakhs of men and women are going to various countries every
year for employment. Many agencies which select them for
jobs abroad are bogus. Hence, those who were selected for
jobs through these agencies found that they had been cheated
and they were forced to take jobs which did not match their
qualification. Hence, the DMK will urge the Centre to make
suitable amendment in the Immigration Act 1983 and give
protection to Indians going abroad for jobs.

Welfare of Transgenders

333. During the DMK rule, a welfare board was constituted for
transgenders, who had been neglected by society; family
cards were issued to them and medical treatment was also
made available for them. Their demands will be considered.
Self help groups will be formed to help them economically.

334. The present pension of Rs.1000 paid to transgenders, who
have no_ income for their subsistence, will be enhanced to
Rs.1300.

Welfare Senior citizens

335. Old age pension paid to senior citizens during the DMK rule
was stopped by the ADMK regime. The DMK will ensure that all
eligible persons are paid pension and further the pension
amount of Rs.1000 will be increased to Rs.1300 and paid
through money order.

92

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

336. For senior citizens of over 60 years, free travel concession in
ordinary government buses will be provided.

337. Homes for the aged will be set up in every district headquarters
and schemes will be formulated and implemented for
providing food, clothing and shelter for the destitute old age
poor. Efforts will be made for implementing this scheme jointly
with voluntary organizations, government departments and
private institutions.

338. Separate geriatric ward will be started in district headquarters
hospitals.

Welfare of children

339. Food Basket Scheme containing nutritious food will be
implemented under children welfare program, to prevent
malnutrition.

340. The Child Labour Prevention Act will be strictly enforced and
steps willbe taken for providing education to children.

341. Child trafficking are on the increase in the State of Tamil Nadu.
The existing laws are found to be insufficient. To put an end to
this social menace and to impose severe punishment to those
who are involved in this crime, Child Trafficking (punishment)
Act willbe passed.

93

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
Social welfare

342. Under Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial inter-caste marriage
scheme, if one of the couple belongs to SC/ST and the other
belongs to BC or MBC or forward community the _ financial
assistance will be increased from Rs.25,000 to Rs.30,000 and
4 gram gold for 'Thali' will be given for conducting the marriage
of women without any educational qualification.

Financial assistance will be increased from Rs.50,000 to
Rs.60,000 and 4 gram gold for ‘Thali’ for conducting the
marriage of women graduates or women diploma holders,
under this scheme.

343. Destitute women, widows, un married women above 50 years,
Sri Lankan refuges living in Tamil Nadu, and beneficiaries
under farmers protection scheme, who are receiving financial
aid from the Government of Tamil Nadu will be paid Rs.300
more than what they are receiving now.

344. To provide food at least once in a day for the poor people, who
have no income and are suffering even for one meal a day
“Arignar Anna Unavagam' will be introduced. This scheme will
be implemented under the direct supervision of the Chief
Minister and with the assistance of corporate social
responsibility fund from institutions, HR&CE and NGOs.

94

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

345. Steps willbe taken for establishing night shelter houses to help
people who sleep on pavements in nights.

346. During the DMK rule, community certificates for students were
given in their respective schools. Now this work is not properly
carried out. Action will be taken for reviving the practice of
issuing community certificates in schools itself.

347. For the first time in India “Manuneedhi Thittam” was
implemented during the DMK rule. The ADMK regime did not
implement it. After the formation of the DMK government, this
Manuneedhi Thittam will be re implemented, so that prompt
solutions would be available for the grievances of the people.

348. Persons belonging to weaker sections of our society are facing
serious threats due to atrocious decisions of Kangaroo Courts,
Usury and Communal fanaticism. To put an end to this menace
we will appoint a high level committee chaired by a retired
judge of high court and Home Secretary, Law Secretary,
senior women police officer, senior journalist, NGO as
members of the committee to advice the government.

Welfare of Journalists

349. The Centre had appointed a committee headed by Justice
Majithiya, retired judge of the Bombay High Court in the year
2011 for determining new scale of pay structure for journalists
and the committee presented its recommendations to the

95

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
government. While the recommendations of Majithiya
committee have been accepted and implemented in many
States, in Tamil Nadu alone new salary scales are not paid.
When question on this was raised, the Labour Department of
ADMK regime submitted false report to Majithiya committee.
Besides condemning this anti-journalist attitude of the ADMK
regime, a commission consisting of senior journalists, owners
of institutions, government representatives of Information and
Labour Departments and representatives of Police
Department will be constituted for reviewing periodic revision
and fixation of salaries, medical insurance and pension,
housing facility, imparting due training to journalists, resolving
issues between journalists and institution owners, and
between journalists, public and police, holding tripartite talks
for finding solution for issues like group insurance for
journalists.

350. During the previous DMK government pension scheme for
journalists was introduced. The anomalies now in practice will
be rectified and pension will be increased.

351. Suitable relief will be provided to journalists affected during
their work and for the damages to their equipments.

352. The relief fund paid to the families of the deceased journalists
will be further increased.

96

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

353. Residential plots will be allotted to journalists in important
towns like Madurai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Salem and
Tirunelveli.

354. All the vindictive defamation cases filed against journalists in
the last five years will be withdrawn.

Public Health

355. District Headquarters Hospitals will be upgraded and modern
clinical labs including scanning facility, cancer treatment ward,
infertility ward, CCU, dialysis centre will be started to help low
income group of people.

356. Besides taking action to full functioning of Tamil Nadu
Physiotherapy council, Physiotherapy Department will be
started in all taluk hospitals.

357. Kalaignar Medical Insurance Scheme for life saving diseases,
and Varumun Kappom scheme conceived for the benefit of the
poor and middle class people which were functioning well
during the DMK government, has been made defunct by the
present ADMK regime. These schemes will be regularised
again and steps will be taken for providing free treatment for
diseases like heart-attack, cancer and kidney-damage.
Further, arrangements will be made for providing emergency
treatment for road-accident victims under Kalaignar Medical
Insurance Scheme. For patients getting treatment under this

97

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
scheme, disease and details of treatment will be recorded and
smart cards will be issued.

358. The number of mobile hospitals will be increased to provide
treatment for rural people. Further the number of ambulance
vehicles now working under “108” Ambulance scheme will be
increased to 2000 in the first phase and action will be taken to
allocate at least 6 vehicles per union.

359. Trauma care hospitals will be set up along the State highways
atadistance of one per every 50 kms.

360. Multi-disciplinary hospitals will be opened in hill towns like the
Nilgiris and Kodaikanal, as the people living in hill towns, who
are in need of emergency treatment have to travel for hours to
reach the plains to receive treatment.

361. Separate department will be opened in all government
hospitals for the treatment of diabetes and blood pressure.

362. The present supply of food to inpatients in government
hospitals will be improved and steps will be taken to provide
nutritious food required for them.

363. Institute of Mental Health like the one functioning in Kilpauk,
Chennai will be started at Tiruchi, and Tirunelveli.

364. Tuberculosis specialty hospitals will be setup in major towns.

365. The State government will supply free of cost rota virus

98

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
vaccine, meningococcal vaccine and hepatitis vaccine for
preventing severe diseases like brain fever, diarrhea and
jaundice, affecting infants.

366. Efforts will be taken for upgrading government general
hospitals in the cities of Coimbatore, Madurai, and Tirunelveli
as higher medical research centres like AlIMS hospital in Delhi,
which will ensure that Tamil Nadu becomes the leading state in
India in providing best medical services.

367. Facility for cardiac surgery, which is now available in
government hospitals in Chennai and Madurai, will be
extended to all government district headquarters hospitals.

368. Besides filling up of vacancies in government hospitals, the
services of doctors and nurses, who are now working on
contract basis will be regularized .

369. As the need for para medical workers is increasing in our
country and abroad, colleges for para medical courses will be
setup.

370. Special Monitoring Vigilance Cell will be setup in all
government hospitals to monitor treatment given to patients
and to improve the quality of treatments.

371. Only 56 percent of children are benefited under the vaccination
schemes in Tamil Nadu. The DMK government will take steps
to cover all children (100%) for the immunization programs.

99

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

372. Government recognition will be given to practitioners of
Siddha, Homeopathy, acupuncture and Unani medicine who
have obtained proper degree.

Environment

373. By letting out treated water into the rivers flowing through
Chennai namely Adyar, Cooum, Buckingham canal,
Mambalam canal, Captain Cotton canal, Otteri Nalla and
Virangal Oodai, solid waste will be removed and water flow will
increase. This will eradicate mosquito breeding and bad odour.
When DMK was part of the Government of India, in the year
2001 an amount of Rs.1300 Crores was allocated under
National River water cleansing project out of which
Rs. 490 crores was allocated for Chennai. But this project was
not completed. Now after the formation of DMK government, a
New project, Tamil Nadu River Conservation Project, under
which _ all effluents including industrial effluents will be treated
and only water with permissible level of chemicals will be let
into the rivers running in Tamil Nadu including Cauvery, Vaigai,
Tamiraparani, Thenpennai, Palar, Vellar, Siruvani, Agniyaru,
Pamparu, Gundaru, Kallar, Nambiar, Kothaiyaru, Noyyal,
Kedilam, Bhavani, Manimutharu and Amaravati.

374. In order to protect environment and cleanliness of public
buildings, roads, bridges, government properties and walls of
government offices, from pasting of posters, painting, erecting

100

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
banners and using on non bio degradable materials, suitable
amendments will be made in the existing Act “Public Places
Defacement (Prevention) Act”.

375. Besides improving tourism facilities in bird sanctuaries at
Pulicat, Vedantangal, Karikkili, Karaivetti,
Udhayamarthandapuram, Vaduvur, Chittirangudi,
Koonthankulam, Vellodu, Mel selvanur and Vettangudi and
undertaking maintenance works for ensuring sufficient water in
water bodies. Ornithology Centres will be set up for study of
birds in important bird sanctuaries.

376. “| have always said, If we grow a tree; the tree will ensure our
growth”. Growing trees is important in the life of people as
oxygen is made available only from trees. Moreover trees
assimilate carbon dioxide for its sustenance and purify air.

The DMK government ensured planting of lakhs of trees
during its earlierregimes. Hence steps will be taken to plant
and grow trees in large numbers.

377. Special scheme will be formulated and implemented for
improving basic facilities like roads, drinking water, solid waste
management, underground drainage and sewerage in
Chennai and suburbs. Moreover, action will be taken for
preventing sewers mixing with waterways in cities.

101

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

378. The debate on the impact of climate changes is going on all
over the world. Acommittee of environment specialists will be
set up to study the impact of climate changes in Tamil Nadu
particularly with reference to agricultural production and
sources of water.

379. Tomake the school and college students and the general public
understand about the climate changes, the impact of climate
changes on the future of the society and the life style changes
which the people have to adopt to control the impact of climate
changes, the government will formulate special schemes to
propagate the issues relating to climate change, and deploy
NGOs for the same.

380. Action will be taken for the introduction of emission-free CNG
buses in the cities of Tamil Nadu as in Delhi.

381. Suitable steps will be taken to increase forest cover in the state
for environmental protection. Constructive steps also will be
taken for protecting distinctive natural resources, birds and
animals.

382. Steps will be taken for safely removing mercury waste of
Unilever factory in Kodaikanal by adopting international
methods to ensure that the region becomes nontoxic.

102

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

383. For improving the functioning of common effluent treatment in
Tamil Nadu and introducing new technology in treatment of
effluent the State government on its part will offer 25 percent
subsidy in addition to the central government subsidy of 50%.

384. All Steps will be taken for growing and protecting mangrove
forests in coastal areas.

Sports

385. All facilities required for improving the athletic skills of youth will
be provided by setting up sports stadiums and coaching
centres in panchayat unions and districts. Sports and exercise
equipments will be provided. Steps will also be taken to give
proper training to sports persons so as to prepare them for
taking partin international sports events.

386. Travel concessions, hostel facilities and food facilities will be
made available to the sports persons, who take part in
recognized sports events.

387. Suitable government employment will be provided for
distinguished persons in sports and pension scheme will be
implemented for them.

103

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
Legislature

388. We will insist to bring in a constitutional amendment to
reestablish the legislative council in Tamil Nadu, with a view to
enable _ political scholars, teachers, educationists, social
workers, artists, writers, and representatives of local bodies, to
take part in it and advise the Government.

389. The proceedings of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will be
telecast as in the case of both Houses of Parliament and
Legislative Assemblies of some States.

Administration

390. A district level committee consisting of NGOs, women
beneficiaries and journalists will be formed in each district for
monitoring the timely implementation of the schemes
announced by the government, and Chief Minister will be
briefed regularly.

391. Grievances day will be conducted once in three months in all
the Assembly constituencies in the presence of elected
representatives and suitable steps will be taken for redressing
the grievances.

104

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

392. A committee of officers will be appointed for verification of
registration of lands on the basis Adangal register (A register)
prepared in 1974 and the will also be compared and verified in
computerized registration so that the details regarding lands
will be properly compiled. The facilities for obtaining patta,
encumbrance certificates etc., online will be made available.

393. The rules relating to open space requirements and building
plan approval when formulated 30 years ago. These rules will
be amended according to the present needs of the people and
steps will be taken for uploading online for the easy access of
the people.

394. Municipalities like Tiruvarur and Nagercoil will be upgraded into
corporations.

395. Steps will be taken to upgrade all the district libraries in
Tamil nadu.

396. Besides continuing to celebrate the birth anniversary of
Perunthalaivar Kamarajar as “Kalvi Valarchi Thirunal’, the birth
anniversary of Thanthai Periyar on September 17 and the birth
anniversary of Arignar Anna on September 15 will be
celebrated as “Pagutharivu Thirunal” and “Thamizhar Ezhuchi
Thirunal” respectively.

105

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

397. Libraries in the names of Tholkappiar who wrote the Tamil
grammar for Tamil, Sangam Tamil poet Kaniyan
Poongundranar, Tamil savants KarmegaKonar, and
Umamaheswaranar, Navalar N.M. Venkatasamy _ Nattar,
U.V.Saminatha lyer would be established in their respective
native places.

398. “Thanmana Thalapathy Alagiri” Memorial will be set up in the
name of Anjanenjan Alagiri Samy in Pattukottai.

399. A Memorial hall will be built for Thiru.Narayanasamy Naidu at
his native place who struggled for the welfare of farmers .

400. A memorial will be constructed at the birth place of
Arutperumjothi Ramalinga Vallalar at Veerasamy street,
Ezhukinaru in Chennai.

Police

401. Police personnel in Tamil Nadu were working for very low
salaries and the government was not paying proper attention
to their grievances. The trust Police Commission was
appointed during in the DMK government in the year 1969, to
address various issues relating to police department. Solutions
were found for issues like wage hike, change in uniform, and

106

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
residential facilities for them. This was continued and the DMK
government set up second and third police commissions and
resolve the issues. Similarly the DMK government will set up
the Fourth Police Commission and implement its
recommendations.

402. As on 2015, more than 20,000 vacancies in police department
remained unfilled. The law and order has deteriorated and the
police personnel were over burdened, because the
government has not recruited police personnel after 2012. Due
to this, thousands of youth who were waiting for selection have
crossed the age-limit.

The DMK government will start the process for the
selection of second grade constables, jail warders, and fire
department personnel.

403. Women Police Grievance Redressal Cell headed by a woman
1.3.2 will be set up to address the grievances of women
constables and officers.

404. During the earlier DMK government, police constables, who
had put in 25 years of service, were assured of promotion as
Special Sub Inspectors. Thousands of police personnel were
benefited. The service rules of police department which

107

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
provide for promotion of constables who have served more
than 25 years as Special Sub Inspectors will be amended 1௦
ensure promotion of a constable as Sub Inspector after
20 years of service or as Inspector after 25 years of service.

405. Police documents such as complaints lodged by the public and
FIRs will be computerized.

Urban Development

406. Modern multi-level car parking facility will be provided in cities
like Chennai.

407. Auto towns in important cities like Perunthurai, Salem,
Sankagiri, Tiruchi and Tiruchengode will be set up.

408. New suburbs with modern facilities will be created in Chennai
and other important cities like Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi,
Salem and Tirunelveli and all infrastructural facilities will be
provided there.

Drinking water

409. Distribution of pure drinking water in all villages will be ensured.

410. During the previous DMK government desalination projects at
Minjur, Nemmeli and Naripaiyur were established. But the
desalination plant project at Naripaiyur has been kept in

108

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
abeyance by the ADMK government. The DMK government
will recommission the Naribaiyur project and the desalination
plant will be extended to other coastal districts.

411. Action will be taken for giving drinking water connection within
15 days of submitting applications in town panchayats,
municipalities and corporations.

Housing

412. With an aim to create 'Hut free Tamil Nadu’, the DMK
government conceived 'Kalaignar Housing scheme’ in 2010,
which was changed and shelved by the ADMK government.
This scheme will be revived and the grant for constructing
concrete houses in rural areas will be increased to Rs.3 lakh
per house. For all the families to whom identity cards were
already issued during the previous DMK government, concrete
houses will be constructed and allocated. The condition of
ineligibility will also be reconsidered.

413. Steps will be taken for waiving interest and penal interest as
one time relief for those who could not repay housing loan
availed from cooperative societies for more than 10 years, and
facing recovery proceedings.

109

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

414. Sale deeds and possession of flats / houses for those who
have paid full sale consideration under hire purchase scheme
of the TN Housing board and TN Slum Clearance Board have
not been issued for many years. Steps will be taken to register
the flats/houses to the beneficiaries at the earliest.

415. Steps will be taken to repair /re construct 15 years old
tenements allotted to Scheduled Caste people under Group
Housing scheme, and houses allotted to BPL families under
Indira Memorial Housing scheme and Slum Clearance Board
tenements which are ina dilapidated condition.

Milk

416. Milk is an essential food. The periodic increase in the price of
milk by the ADMK government has affected the poor and
middle class families. Hence, it is proposed to immediately
reduce the cost of milk sold through Aavin by Rs. 7 perlitre.

417. Steps will be taken to procure the entire milk produced by the
cooperative milk producers. Further, a committee consisting of
representatives from Aavin the government and the milk
producers will be formed for the fixation of procurement price.

418. Aavin will be upgraded with modern technologies with
improved technology for producing dairy products in large

110

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
quantities and marketing them in other States. Steps will be
taken for setting up more number of milk cooperative societies
and factories for increasing production of dairy products.

Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment Department

419. Besides regulating and collecting rent to be received by the
temple trust from temple lands, a Land Bank will be established
for protecting vacant land belonging to temples. Moreover, a
high level committee led by a retired judge will be constituted
for considering the demand of the people, who are offering to
purchase the temple land within the legal frame work.

420. Cable car facilities in hill temples and battery car facilities in
temples like Rameswaram will be provided.

421. Temple car streets in Tiruvarur Thiyagarayar temple,
Tiruvannamalai Arunachaleswar temple, Srivilliputhur Andal
temple, Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple, Srirangam
Ranganathar temple and other temples will be converted to
concrete roads.

422. The girivalam route in Tiruvannamalai will be upgraded as
concrete road and more number of trees will be planted on
either side of the road for giving shade to the pilgrims. Action

111

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
will be taken for planting saplings on hill areas to increase a
green cover and protect the environment.

423. The temple tanks in Tamil Nadu will be periodically de-silted
and filled with clean water.

424. Temples in Tamil Nadu, which are symbols of Dravidian
architecture, will be renovated in tune with its archeological
importance.

425. Action will be taken for increasing the wages and pension for
priests in village temples.

426. PerformingArchana in Tamil will be extended to all the temples.

427. Ahigh level statutory committee with powers to ensure better
temple administration will be formed as per the
recommendations of the HR&CE consultative committee led
by Thavathiru Kundrakudi Adikalar set up by the DMK
governmentin 1989.

Ports

428. Steps will be taken for executing Chennai Port- Maduravoyal
Elevated Expressway project, started by National Highways
Authority of India during the DMK rule for reducing traffic
congestion in Chennai city which was stopped by the ADMK

112

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
government. The project will help to increase business in
Chennai Port, and thereby ensure economic progress.

429. Deep Sea Commercial Ports will be established in
Nagapattinam and Cuddalore.

430. Efforts will be taken for starting fishing boat building unit at
Kolachal kanyakumari district.

431. Fishing harbours and godowns with cold storage facility will be
set up in the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu to promote fishing
industry.

432. All fishing harbours in Tamil Nadu will be renovated. Fishing
harbours at Kasimedu, Akkaraipettai, Rameswaram and
Thondi will be modernised and expanded.

Transport

433. GPS will be installed in government and private passenger
buses and separate help line will be allotted.

434. During the DMK rule, a committee headed by Thiru. Thillai
Nayagam was constituted in the year 1990, to review and
revamp the road transport system in Tamil Nadu. Efforts will be
made to study the recommendations of the committee and
steps will be taken to control losses incurred by the transport
corporations of Tamil Nadu.

113

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

435. All municipal, and corporation bus stands will be upgraded and
toilets; bath rooms and changing rooms will be set up for the
convenience of women passengers.

436. The number of women and student special buses plying in all
cities will be increased.

437. During the DMK rule, mini bus licenses were issued and plied
for the commuting of farmers, workers, school students from
villages inaccessible by ordinary buses. During ADMK
government this scheme was used only for publicizing their
party symbol. After the formation of DMK government this
scheme will be extended and the number of Mini Buses will be
increased to match increasing population for the benefit of rural
people.

438. Bus fare which was raised haphazardly during the ADMK rule
will be rationalized and uniform fares based on distance will be
fixed in government buses throughout Tamil Nadu.

439. The Insurance Scheme will be amended to include relief to
accident victims while travelling in government buses and
vehicles.

114

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
Road Transport

440. Efforts will be made for expeditious execution of the Vikravandi-
Kumbakonam - Thanjavur four lane road project permitted by
NHAI during DMK rule.

441. Steps will be taken for gradually upgrading two lane roads into
four lane roads and four lane roads into six lane roads in Tamil
Nadu.

442. Bypass roads will be laid in towns in Tamil Nadu for reducing
traffic congestion.

443. Elevated highway projects will be implemented in cities like
Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli,
wherever traffic congestion is prevalent.

444. All efforts will be taken to execute Chennai-Kanyakumari East
Coast Road extension which was started during DMK rule.

445. When the DMK was a constituent of the Union Cabinet,
decision was taken for widening Chennai-Kanyakumari
National Highway into a six lane road, for which land was
acquired and flyovers were constructed. But the project is kept
in abeyance now. The DMK will continue to urge the Union
Highways department to implement this project without delay.

115

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
Railway
446. The DMK will urge the Centre to expeditiously implement new
broad gauge lines between the following places:
Tirukkuvalai-Nagapattinam
Tiruvarur-Tiruturaipundi-Karaikudi
Thanjavur-Orathanad=Pattukottai
Mannargudi-Madukkur-Pattukottai
Karaikudi-Ramanathpuram-Tuticorin
Madurai-Theni-Bodi
Dindigul-Theni-Bodi-Cumbum-Gudalur-Kumuli
Morapur-Dharmapuri
Thanjavur-Ariyalur
Kumbakonam-Jayankondam-Vriddhachalam
Madurai-Melur- Karaikudi
Avadi-Sriperumpudur-Gudvancheri
Peralam-Karaikal
Erode-Palani
116

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

447. The DMK will urge the Centre to expeditiously implement
doubling of tracks between
Thanjvur-Tiruchi
Tindivanam-Kanyakumari

448. The DMK will urge the Centre to develop Chennai Royapuram
railway station as a passenger terminal.

449. The second unit of Integral Coach Factory, Chennai was
announced by the railway ministry five years back. But this
project is kept in abeyance. Hence the DMK will urge the
Centre to expeditiously execute this project.

450. The DMK will urge the Centre for constructing ROBs and RUBs
in all level-crossings and set up alarm bells to prevent
accidents in unmanned level-crossings.

Metro Rail

451. Priority will be given for extending metro rail facility in cities like
Trichy, Madurai and Coimbatore.

452. The metro rail project devised during the DMK government and
nearing completion will be extended up to Mamallapuram and
another line up to Sriperumpudur via Irunkattukottai and
Oragadam industrial towns.

117

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

453. Work on the metro rail route between Tondiarpet-Tiruvotriyur
which was approved during DMK rule in the second phase, will
be started immediately.

Civil Aviation

454. Besides taking efforts for formally announcing Madurai airport
as an international airport, the DMK will urge the Centre to
modernize and expand the airports in Salem and Tuticorin.

455. The DMK will urge the Centre to implement the already
announced Green field Airport in Kancheepuram district for
which efforts were made during DMK rule in view of the
increasing international passenger traffic and presently kept in
abeyance.

Waterways

456. The DMKwill urge the Centre to implement national waterways
projects linking three States from Marakkanam to Kakinada
which was announced by the Centre on the demand of the
DMK government.

Art and Culture

457. Efforts will be made to preserve and promote folk arts. Folk
artists will be issued identity cards and the present financial
assistance provided will be increased .

118

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

458. Steps will be taken for removing the ban on Jallikatu, the
traditional sport of the Tamils and to restore Rekla race.

459. MGR Film City which is in a dilapidated State due to
carelessness of the ADMK government will be reconstructed
and modernized.

460. Action will be taken for reducing the fee for outdoor shooting for
films which was hiked during the ADMK regime.

461. Amemorial for Nadigar Thilagam Sivaji Ganesan, which was
announced during the earlier DMK rule and space allocated will
be completed constructed.

462. Art and cultural events of folk artists along with sports events
will be held on Pongal day every year in all the districts, towns,
and panchayat unions and prizes will be awarded to the
winners.

Disaster management

463. Suitable technical facility will be created to forewarn the people
about disasters like cyclone and floods through SMS and
televisions.

464. Generators will be provided for police stations, revenue offices
and hospitals engaged in essential services during disasters
like heavy rains and floods.

119

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

465. Thousands of families were affected in the floods in December
2015 in Chennai. Besides the failure of ADMK government to
take immediate action, the Central forces also could not
immediately take up relief work because of lack of coordination
between them and the government. Many voluntary
organizations and thousands of youth immediately came
forward and rescued people and took them to hospitals for
treatment. The humanitarian approach and action of people of
Chennai were lauded by people of the world. Though many
individuals and voluntary organizations were not trained in
disaster relief, their acts of risking their lives and saving the
people is appreciable. Hence special programmes will be
formulated and implemented through Tamil Nadu Disaster
Management Commission to impart necessary training to
voluntary organizations and individuals who come forward to
engage themselves in relief works during the times of disaster.

Rural development

466. As toilet facilities are not easily available in rural areas in Tamil
Nadu, people defecate in the open. Considering the health
hazards because of such habits, steps will be taken to build
toilet facilities in all houses in Tamil Nadu and public toilets will
be constructed in slum areas. The DMK will take efforts to make
Tamil Nadu as a totally healthy and hygienic State.

120

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

467. Tamil Nadu Rural Development Fund will be created for the
improvement of the villages in Tamil Nadu.

468. Occupation related training like electrical and plumbing work
will be imparted to youth for creating self-employment
opportunities in rural areas. Animal husbandry experts will be
deployed for giving training to the villagers to detect diseases
affecting cattle and take them for immediate treatment.

469. Facilities like roads, electricity, housing, medical care,
transport, drinking water and education will be provided step
by step for people in hamlets and villages atop hills and foot of
the hills.

470. After the formation of DMK government Anaithu Grama Anna
Marumalarchi Thittam will be implemented again. Further
‘Namakku Naame’ programme implemented during the earlier
DMK rule will be revived.

471. Steps will be taken to issue permit slips to graze the cattle in
hills and also for the shepherds to stay in hills.

Construction industry

472. Important construction materials like cement, steel, bricks,
sand and wood will be brought under essential commodities list
and made available at reasonable price.

121

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

473. As the ADMK regime has increased guideline value for lands
and house sites by several folds, those engaged in
construction industry are very much affected and as the
investment already made in construction industry is locked,
flow of money is curtailed. This has adversely affected the sale
of construction materials like steel, wood, electric goods etc.,
affecting merchants. To remove this hardship, a review
committee consisting of the representatives of organizations
belonging to this sector, beneficiaries and government officials
will be formed to determine the fair guideline value and after
obtaining the report of the committee steps will be taken to
resolve the present crisis in the construction industry.

474. Action will be taken for granting approval through Single
Window system within 60 days of application for constructing
residences, factories, offices and multistoried residential
buildings, commercial buildings and for rationalising the fees
for building approval.

475. Steps will be taken to reduce the stamp charges for transfer of
property between blood relatives.

476. Registration department document writers' welfare board will
be re-activated.

122

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

477. Document registration methods in Registration department will
be simplified.

478. The fee for obtaining encumbrance certificate has been
increased by about 20 times by the present government. Steps
will be taken for rationalising the fee structure.

479. Steps will be taken for handing over the documents in a time
bound manner to the buyers of flats/houses from the Tamil
Nadu Housing Board after the cost is paid in full.

480. Building rules introduced in the year 1972 will be reviewed and
amended to suit the present needs.

481. Civil Engineering Council for construction engineers will be
established and an expert committee will be set up to study the
proposal for permitting those who have properly registered
themselves in that council to engage in construction works.

482. The process of obtaining plan approval for constructing
buildings for residence, office and factories in own places will
be simplified.

Judiciary

483. The Lawyers welfare Fund will be increased from

Rs.5,25,000 lakhs to Rs.7 lakhs.
123

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

484. More number of advocate chambers will be constructed in all

the district court complexes.
Ex-servicemen

485. A committee will be formed for the welfare of ex-servicemen
and their families and solution will be found for their just
demands within a timeframe.

486. Preference will be given to retired servicemen in suitable
employment opportunities.

Veterinary

487. Veterinary hospitals with Blue Cross ambulance facilities will be
set up at required places in Tamil Nadu.

488. Steps will be taken for conducting special veterinary medical
camps in every panchayat union.

489. Action will be taken by the government to pay suitable
compensation for the cattle hit and killed by moving vehicles on
roads.

490. Steps will be taken for preserving rare animal species like
Kangeyam bulls and Rajapalayam Kombai dogs which are the
pride of Tamil Nadu.

124

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

491. Action will be taken for issuing health cards for pets like dogs

and cats and animals including goats and cows.
General

492. Since Right to Services Act is to be introduced in Tamil Nadu, it
becomes the duty of the government to ensure that common
man is aware of the information on the various welfare
schemes announced by the government, and for the farmers to
know the information from the Union Government's Kissan
Call Centre. Publishing the schemes through print and other
media by way of advertisements involves heavy expenditure to
the government. For the common people to know about
various welfare schemes and other public schemes, and to
know about the eligibility criteria fixed for availment of benefits
under the schemes, and also to apply for the schemes through
internet, and to cut down on the expenditure a special App. will
be created and made available to the people free of cost.
People can download the App in their mobile devices. Since
such apps can only be downloaded in Smart phones, the
government will provide Smart phones with the above App, to
the poor families, particularly farmers, who can't afford smart
phones, at government expenditure.

125

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

493. Wi-Fi facility will be made available in all bus stands, public
offices, courts premises, hospitals, libraries etc. This facility will
be created in cities in the first phase and gradually extended to
the whole of Tamil Nadu.

494. Steps will be taken for bringing suitable amendments in
insurance laws to provide compensation for damages to
television sets, computers, and refrigerator etc., in the
residential houses due to natural calamities.

495. CCTV cameras will be fixed in all places frequented by people,
like government and private educational institutions, hospitals,
bus stands, police stations, HR&CE temples etc.

496. All cases filed against anti-Koodankulam nuclear power plant
activists will be withdrawn.

497. Satish பாவலா Space Research centre is situated in
Sriharikota , Andhra Pradesh. Efforts will be taken for setting up
the second space research centre in Tamil Nadu.

498. Efforts will be made for setting up the second Rocket Launching
Centre of ISRO in Kulasekarapattinam in Tirunelveli district
and India Space Liquid Propulsion System Centre in Tirunelveli
district.

126

ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

499. All efforts will be made for the formation of Southern Gas Grid
demanded by the DMK during the last 45 years. The DMK will
urge the Centre to do the needful for laying natural gas pipe
lines without affecting agricultural lands throughout Tamil
Nadu.

500. The Motor Vehicles Act recently introduced by the Centre,
besides interfering with the freedom of States also affects
vehicle owners and drivers. To protect the livelihood of auto
and taxi drivers and drivers working privately, the DMK will
urge the Centre to give up this Act in the interests of poor and
downtrodden drivers.

501. As the DMK had never compromised in upholding communal
harmony, steps will be taken for permitting all religious
institutions without any difference, to set up their places of
worship in places owned by them as per the rights provided
under Article 25 of the Constitution.

People of Tamil Nadu know very well that during the DMK
rule in the past, it took Tamil Nadu on the path of development
by serving with the motto of 'We'll do what we say; Say what we
do”. We assure that the DMK will strive hard with a focus to
enable Tamil Nadu to march ahead in the path of progress
overcoming the regression during the ADMK regime!

127

ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO
We will formulate a number of development projects and
implement them!
Our basic approach will be sympathy, humility, and courage!
We will eliminate discrimination !
We will ensure honest, transparent, growth oriented and good
governance!
We will re-establish Tamil Nadu as unparalleled in terms of
development in India!
We will end violence and overcome poverty!
Worship God in the happiness of the poor!
Work undauntedly in the Path of Anna!
We will do what we say!
And say what we do!
WZ

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
SELECTED PEARLS
(The Numbers given within brackets at the end of every point are the
serial numbers of these points in the manifesto)

1. An Acttointroduce prohibition. (13)

2. வ Actto form LokAyuktha.(16)

3... Rightto Services Act.(17)

4.  Aseparate budget for agriculture.(23)

5. To form a Tamil Nadu Integrated Regulated Marketing
Corporation for selling all agro products and rural products.(24)

6. Waiver of entire crop loan availed by small and micro
farmers.(25)

re Minimum support price for paddy will be increased upto
Rs.2500 per quintal. (26)

8. Minimum support price for sugarcane will be increased to
Rs.3500 per Ton.(27)

9. | Aseparate department for organic farming.(28)

10. Minimum support price for agriculture products like plantain,
turmeric, tapioca, pulse millets, chilly, grains, tea, oil seeds,
sesame and sunflower. (30)

129

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

11. Power supply to all farmers who have applied for power
connection.(32)

12. Free dhoti and saree and pongal cash of Rs.500 to farmers and
agricultural laboures every year.(33)

13. AnAct to increase 50days to benefit agriculture labours in the
100 days job scheme - job will be given to them for 150 days
(36)

14. Full subsidy for all varieties of paddy seeds. (42)

15. Subsidy up to Rs.10,000 will be provided for small and micro
farmers for buying new electricity motors.(44)

16. DMK will oppose Land Acquisition Amendment Bill of the
Central government.

17. Payment of compensation to individual farmers when natural
calamity and destruction take place in their land.(51)

18. Horticulture university at Krishnagiri.(76)

19. Aseparate Ministry for irrigation.(77)

20. AndActto setup Water ManagementAuthority.(78)

130

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

21. Allocation of Rs.10000 Crores for implementing state wide
water management projects like de-silting traditional water
bodies to construct new canals, to augment irrigation and
drinking water facilities.(80)

22. Allocation of Rs. 2000 crores to construct 200 check dams.(81)

23. Constitution of Chennai Metro Flood Control and Management
Committee. (83)

24. Five Lakh houses for fishermen.(113)

25. Efforts to setup National Fishermen Welfare Commission.
(114)

26. Steps to include fishermen community in the list of scheduled
tribes as marine tribes.(115)

27. Rs.5000 to fishermen during the period of fishing holiday and
as monsoon relief.(125)

28. Silk park at Kanchipuram.(136)

29. Weavers co-operative bank.(137)

30. Separate textile commission.(142)

131

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

31. Free power of 200 units to handloom weavers.(146)

32. Free power of 750 units to power loom weavers.(148)

33. Asubsidy of Rs.3 Lakhs for the construction of houses.(149)

34. Regularisation of services of all temporary employees working
in the government for more than 10 years.(156)

35. Agrant of Rs.10,000 to Auto rickshaw drivers for the purchase
of auto rickshaw.(159)

36. Rs.5000 to the workers of salt pans during the monsoon
period.(160)

37. Setting up of Academic Council for Equitable Education.(163)

38. To train 25 lakhs students to improve their employability and
skill development.(165)

39. Providing milk to children of elementary schools in the
mornings.(170)

40. Waiver of educational loans of students.(171)

41. 3G/4G internet facility for all students.(172)

132

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

42. Free education for first generation students joining
professional courses irrespective of caste. (176)

43. Scheme for paying tuition fees of students belonging to poor
downtrodden families who are selected through counselling for
professional courses.(182)

44. With the involvement of 2 lakhs unemployed youths the
government will directly undertake mining and trading of
granite, minerals, sand, blue metal, etc.(184)

45. Incubation centres will be set up by state government to
encourage new inventors.(185)

46. Grant of Rs.1 Lakh to registered graduate entrepreneurs to
start small enterprise. (186)

47. A scheme for converting employment exchanges into skill
development institutions.(187)

48. Steps to conduct job fair to be organized by the district collector
in each district to provide jobs in private sector for One lakh
persons every year.(189)

133

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

49. Filling up of all vacancies in various government
departments.(190)

50. Filling up of teacher vacancies in government schools.(191)

51. Regularization of the services of part time computer teachers,
music teachers, painting teachers, physical education
teachers.(192,193)

52. Increased monthly financial assistance to unemployed youth
who have completed their education with the employment
exchange.(194)

53. Preference in government jobs _ to first generation
graduates.(195)

54. Granting of permission through single window system to
entrepreneurs within a period of 100 days. (201)

55. Tenpercent production of ethanol in sugar factories.(203)

56. Setting up of industrial corridor from Madurai to Tuticorin and
Chennai to Hosur.(206)

57. Payment of electricity bills once ina month.(222)

134

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

58. Issuing of new family cards (Smart Cards) within 15 days.(233)

59. All goods will be made available for family card holders on all
working days of the month.(237)

60. Setting up of  Thirukkkural Research Centre at
Kanyakumari.(241)

61. Maternity leave of 9 months.(251)

62. Scheme for providing antenatal insurance for the mother and
the child in the womb.(252)

63. Marriage Assistance Scheme consisting of Rs.60000 and
4 gram gold for Thali.(260)

64. Payment of Rs.18000 as assistance to ladies during the period
of pregnancy.(262)

65. Working women hostels in each district head quarters.(264)

66. A loanofRs.50000 to Self Help Groups.(266)

67. SelfHelp Groups for unemployed youth.(269)

135

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

68. Filling up of backlog vacancies for scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes.(278)

69. A sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the families of those who die of
asphyxiation.(287)

70. Governmentjobs to the heirs of sanitary workers who die while
in service.(289)

71. Setting up of a coordination committee to decide on
comprehensive polices for the welfare of the differently-abled
persons. Steps to reduce the disability criteria for availing
disability allowance from 60% to 40%.(296)

72. Free bus for differently abled persons.(297)

73. Interest free loan of Rs.2000 to petty traders.(305)

74. Trade centres at Madurai, Tuticorin, and Trichy.(311)

75. Cancellation of new pension scheme and Reintroduction of
the old pension scheme.(317)

76. Steps to implement the recommendation of the seventh pay
commission of Central government.(318)

136

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

77. The family relief of Rs. 1.5 lakh will be increased to Rs.5 Lakhs
to the families of government employees and teachers who die
while in service. The monthly contribution of the staff will be
Rs.30 Only.(319)

78. 5.5 Lakhs to the families of Makkal Naala Paniyalargal who
died during the pendency of their litigation.(321)

79. An incentive and cash award to the government employees
and teachers who complete 25 years of meritorious
service.(323)

80. Rs. 1300 as old age pension.(335)

81. Free bus travel for elders.(336)

82. Ascheme for giving food basket containing nutrition rich food
varieties for children.(339)

83. Financial assistance of Rs.60000 and 4 gram of gold Thali for
the inter caste marriage of women graduates. (342)

84. ArignarAnna Unavagam for poor people.(344)

137

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

85. Establishment of night shelter houses for helping people who
sleep on pavements during nights.(345)

86. Setting up ofa commission for the welfare of journalists.(349)

87. Increasing the pension of retired journalists and family relief
fund.(350)

88. Withdrawal of all cases filed against journalists.(354)

89. Reimplementation of Varumun Kappom Scheme. (357)

90. Advanced Medical Research Centres at Coimbatore, Madurai,
and Tirunelveli.(366)

91. Regularization of all contractual appointments in government
hospitals.(368)

92. Tamil Nadu River Conservation Project.(373)

93. Reestablishment of legislative council.(388)

94. Public grievance camps once in three months in all Assembly
Constituencies.(391)

138

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO

95. Issuing of patta and encumbrance certificates through
online.(392)

96. To celebrate the birth anniversary of Thanthai Periyar as
‘Pagutharivu Thirunal’ and the birth anniversary of Arignar
Anna as ‘Thamizhar Ezhuchi Thirunal’. (396)

97. Fourth Police Commission.(401)

98. Distribution of pure drinking water in all villages will be ensured.
(409)

99. Setting up of desalination plants in all coastal districts. (410)

100. Drinking water connection to houses within 15 days from the
date of application.(411)

101. Hutments free Tamil Nadu.(412)

102. AgrantofRs. 3 Lakhs to build concrete houses in villages.(412)

103. Aavin milk price will be reduced by Rs.7per litre.(416)

104. Steps to procure entire milk produced by the cooperative milk
producers at remunerative price by Aavin.(417)

139

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 பவல்‌, MANIFESTO

105. Land bank for the protection of temple lands.(419)

106. Temple car streets of important temples will be converted to
concrete path.(421)

107. Increase in wages and pension amount for priests in village
temple.(425)

108. Establishment of deep sea commercial ports at Nagapatinam
and Cuddalore.(429)

109. Installation of GPS in passenger buses.(433)

110. Metro Railin Trichy, Madurai, and Coimbatore.(451)

111. Identity cards for folk artists and increased pension amount for
them.(457)

112. Steps to remove ban on Jallikkattu and to restore Rekla
Race.(458)

113. Modernization of M.G.R film city.(459)

114. Memorial for Sivaji Ganesan.(461)

140

15" LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY Am DRAVIDA MUNNETRA KAZHAGAM
ELECTION - 2016 sian, MANIFESTO
115. Reimplementation of Anaithu Grama Anna Marumalarchi
Thittam.(470)
116. Reimplementation of Namakku Naame Scheme.(470)
117. Construction material including sand will be made available on
a fair and reasonable price.(472)
118. Guideline value of land will be restructured. (473)
119. Granting of approval through single window system within 60
days of application for constructing building.(474)
120. Lawyers welfare fund to be increased to Rs.7 Lakhs.(483)
121. Providing smart phones to the families who can't afford smart
phones at government expenditure.(492)
122. Providing Wi-Fi facility in all public places.(493)
123. Withdrawal of all cases filed against anti-Koodankulam nuclear
power plant activists.(496)
We will do what we say!
And say what we do!
141

Work undauntedly in the Path of Anna!
Please Support the Rising Sun !
